--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0001 ---
om
@
(x)
LS,
yG > p>
ow? <ow™ cosy NY gos RS yy axnne
RSS wean
ed
rent G \3 ww
aoe Ne
\. Call oe pec 40 ox
A\e {wo aca
yu pede of wee”
WW: ope ea®
Q- cen se? ove
aoe ea®
N: ae 40 ont
wi. rayo™


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0002 ---


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0003 ---
Vi.

Vil.

Vill.

AGENDA
TOWN COUNCIL MEETING
At Richlands Town Hall
September 13, 2022
6:00 P.M.

Call the Meeting to Order

Invocation

Pledge of Allegiance

Additions/Deletions to Agenda (Includes the removal/transfer of Consent Agenda items as needed.)

a.

Approval of Agenda

Consent Agenda

a.
b.

Authorization to Pay Bills (August)

Minutes- Joint Public Hearing on August 9*", 2022, Town council Meeting on August
gt" 2022, Town Council Workshop on August 23", 2022, Town Council Workshop on
August 25", 2022, Continued Workshop on August 29", 2022,

Budget Amendment

Scheduled Public Comment (Five Minute Maximum)

a.

Michael Sizemore- Water Treatment Plant

Unscheduled Public Comment (Three Minute Maximum)

Agenda Items

a.
b.
C.

gro

Creation of a B-3 Zone First Reading (O-2022-09-01)
Appointment of Police Chief
Electric Battery Discussion
i. Closed Session if needed- 2.2-3711(A) (6)— Contract Negotiation
Utility Rate Schedule Discussion
Water and Wastewater Plant Maintenance
Economic/ Community Development Department Discussion
Town Building Maintenance
i. Town Hall Roof
ii. Police Department Roof
iii. © EMS Department Roof
Christmas Tree Discussion
Dispatch Hours of Operation Discussion
Council Insurance Discussion
Public Safety Committee Discussion
Library Project Funding


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0004 ---
m. Street paving discussion
n. Fluoride Update and Discussion

IX. Return to Open Session, Certification, Report on Action

X. Town Manager Report
a. Emergency Phone Update
b. Miscellaneous

XI. — Attorney’s Comments
a. Utility Easement
b. Electric System Contract Review

XII. Council Member Reports (Non-voting Items)
a. Kristen Thompson-Whitt

b. Seth White
c. Doug Ratliff
d. Rick Wood
e. Laura Mollo
f. Jeff Hurst

Xill. Mayor’s Comments
XIV. Adjourn Meeting

Next regular meeting date is October 11, 2022, at 6:00pm.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0005 ---
Town of Richlands, VA

Memo

To: Mayor and Members of Council
From: John O'Daniel, Town Manager
cc: Town Attorney; Clerk of Council
Date: 9/9/2022

Re: Check Registry- August 2022

Due to Town staff being away from the office to attend to a family medical issue the check registry has been delayed.
We hope to have this to you before the council meeting Tuesday evening.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0006 ---


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0007 ---
The Richlands Town Council held a joint “Public Hearing” with the Planning Commission on
August 9"", 2022, in the Richlands Council Chambers at 5:30 pm with the following present:

Mayor: Rod D. Cury
Town Manager: John O’ Daniel
Town Clerk: Rebekah Hackworth

Council Members: Doug Ratliff, Jeff Hurst, Rick Woods, Kristen Thompson-Whitt, Seth
White, and Laura Mollo.

Town Attorney: Michael Thomas
Vice Mayor White opened the meeting.
Vice Mayor White gave the invocation and led the Pledge of Allegiance.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Seth for getting us started. We have before us the joint public hearing
with the Planning Commission. The public hearing is now opened. This is regarding the Drug
Rehab as an Added Use in the B-2 Zoning,

Michael- Mayor, it is not a Drug Rehab as an Added Use, it is Hospital Special Care with Special
Use Permit.

Mayor Cury- Okay, thank you for your help. I was just reading it off what the agenda says.
Okay, just to make it clear, this is a joint hearing for Hospital Special Care as an Added Use in
the B-2 Zoning. Is there anyone here who would like to speak on this issue?

Okay, since there is no one here to speak, I will close the public hearing.

Closed!

Mayor Cury- We will adjourn this public hearing and let the Planning Commission discuss their
recommendation.

Adjourned! !

Rodney D. Cury, Mayor

Rebekah Hackworth, Clerk


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0008 ---


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0009 ---
The Richlands Town Council held a “Regular Meeting” on August gth 2022, in the Richlands
Council Chambers at 6:30 pm with the following present:

Mayor: Rod D. Cury
Town Manager: John O’Danie]
Town Clerk: Rebekah Hackworth

Council Members: Doug Ratliff, Jefe Hurst, Rick Wood. Kristen Thompson- Whitt, Seth
White, and Laura Mollo,

Town Attorney: Michael Thomas
Mayor Cury opened the meeting.
Mayor Cury gave the invocation and led the Pledge of Allegiance.

Mayor Cury- First off, I would like to say congratulations to our newest council members, Rick
Wood and Laura Mollo,

First thing on the agenda are additions/deletions to the agenda, Does anyone have any additions
or deletions to the agenda?

I would like to make one addition on Roman Numeral OL, I would like to adda TIT (A)
Timekeeper- Morgan Earp.

Mayor ury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion? All those in favor of the
motion say yes. All those that Oppose say no, Rol] Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff. Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion Catties -6/0,

Mayor Cury- Next on the agenda ig the consent agenda. Does anyone have any question about
the consent agenda,

Laura- I do have a question, what is the etc, on the check registry? And can We get a copy of
What we are Spending and receiving from the Rec Park?

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and 4 second, any further discussion? All those in favor of the
Motion say yes, Al] those that °PPose say no. Rol] Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff. Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion Catties -6/0.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0010 ---
Mayor Cury- We know have Scheduled Public Comments with Cormelia A. Cox.

Cornelia A. COX 580 North Tazewell Street. Richlands came in and on my private property and
tore up our property markers and illegally put ina water line. They have destroyed my property
and made a horrible mess and I just wanted to Say 1 am taking back my property and putting MY
property markets back up.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Cornelia. John, do you know anything about this?
John- No.

Mayor Cury- Okay, { am going to have John investigate this and report back to us at our next
meeting.

Next, we have Unscheduled Public Comments, and I would like to have motion to approved
Morgan Earp as the Timekeeper.

Kristen- I make a motion to approve Morgan Earp as the Timekeepet. Rick seconded the motion.

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a gecond, any further discussion? All those in favor of the
motion say Yes: All those that oppose say DO- Roll Call- Doug: Yes, Jeff- Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion carries -6/0.

Mayor Cury- Thank you. Blake Ray, you are first up OD unscheduled public comments.

Blake Ray- 426 Buchanan Street. [ just wanted to come and give @ quick update about Pop-Up
Richlands. We plan on staring, POp- Up again on September gth and running it for 6 weeks. | just
wanted to Say thank you to the council for the continued support of the program. Tt has been 4
success. It has created 7 jobs and filled and renovated 2 of the vacant building here in Richlands.
{Tam very excited to see what it is going to do in September.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Blake. Next, we have Morgan Earp.

Morgan Earp- 1618 6" Street. There are 4 couple railroad ties next to the dump that’s next to the
river and they need to be moved. I had one more thing to say but I forgot it, S yeah, that’s all I
have to say tonight.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Morgan. Next, we have Ernest Edgel.

Ernest Edgel- 206 Terry Drive. We have 4 lot of people parking in the street in Hidden Valley.
Who takes cate of that? We also have a lot of junk cars, there are several on Kents Ridge. Also,
what about garbage cans? I thought you had to have them put up by a certain time? How long are
they allowed to git the road before something happens? J just think we need to clean UP this
town, if we ate wanting people to move and stay in our town.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Finest. Next, we have Mickey Smith.

Mickey Smith- 524 Sycamore Lane. We need to pave Fast Second Street. My friend lost two
buyers on her house because they didn’t want to drive through East Second Street every day to
get to their house.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0011 ---
Mayor Cury- Thank you, Mickey. The council and I wil] agree with you and Mr. Edgel that we
Want our town to appear better,

John- Yes, I wil] do my best,

Mayor Cury- Thank you and thank you to everyone that has spoken tonight. Next on the agenda
is the Utility Rate Schedule Discussion, John, I will let you take it from here.

I have Kelly Ward on a 200M call to talk to us tonight and hopefully answer any questions you
all may have with the funding for the wastewater plant. However, with both proj ects, if we hold
off or go forward, the wastewater plant came in above what we originally Proposed. So, we have

to get that approved as well from VRA to make Sure that the funding is an inappropriate amount
for tonight's discussion,

I just wanted to give you 8uys an update on what I found on the tates and then discuss Kelly's
Tesponse to the e-mail that I sent her.

Mayor Cury- Okay, let us welcome Ms, Ward. Ms, Ward, thank you for coming on to speak to
Us tonight.

Kelly-Thank you very much. It is the standard practice of the drinking water (SRF) that in order
to consider the disadvantages that the water rates are 1% of the NHI or higher. Because of the

nature of the great study that was done by Karl Brown summer of 2020, We allowed the town
to submit a combined rate of $50 and some odd change, allowing a 50/50 split rather than

next three years, The 2021 rate increase was passed. The 2022 wag not passed and I don't know
about the 2023. Obviously, it is yet to be decided. The rate was just to Open the door to principal
forgiveness and the 30-year Tepayment was not a Statement that said the rates are sufficient to


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0012 ---
rates for the Town of Richlands are considerably less than surrounding communities. I cannot
tell you what to do, but I can say that you need to satisfy not just the disadvantaged status for
principal forgiveness, but the requirements that VRA will hand down. They are the financial co-
administrators for the fund, tasked by the General Assembly to take care of the loan underwriting
and to manage the finances. I don't have any sway with them. There are requirements that are
usually 115% of the dit service. I am simply trying to help the town make the best decision
possible.

Mayor Cury- Ms. Ward, thank you very much. Are you open to any questions that members of
council may have? So, that we can better understand what you are say.

Kelly Ward- Sure.

Kristen- Ms. Ward, I was one of the members who voted no last time. It wasn’t that we didn’t
want the increases. There was no documentation showing us where these numbers and figures
came from and that is why we voted no. We just wanted some documentation so we could show
people why we were doing what we were doing. Everyone here is at such an economic
disadvantage anyways, and those rate increases really hit hard. So, we wanted to be able to show
why we were doing what we were doing.

Kelly- Fair enough. The rate study was not paid for by the drinking water (SRF). It was my
understanding that the town did that, but I did not read all of it, to be honest.

Kristen- That has been a lot of our issue. We have had so much turnover that a lot of the people
who are here were not here when this first started and couldn’t answers that question either.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Kristen. Does anyone else have any questions?

Seth- I just have one thing. I read your e-mail, Ms. Ward and it says “it's disappointing to learn
that this current council is unwilling to adhere to the commitments made by the prior council.
You have been around for, you said 20 years in local government. You understand that no
current council can bind any future council's decision. So, this is an elected body. Just like every
other elected body in Virginia and when councils change, things change. However, we were
faced with a last-minute show up by our engineer saying we are not going to do the project. Now
after this council has already spent $1,000,000 in engineering on a project that we are now not
going forward with.

I just read your comments and I wanted to just wanted to address that point with you but also
there's a lot more going on here than just us deciding not to raise water rates or sewer rates and
every fee that our citizens have been increased over the last few year, it is taking a toll on them.
We are at an unprecedented amount of inflation in this country right now. Everything costs more
than it did a year ago, two years ago, and three years ago.

I think that it is definitely the consideration of this council that if we are not going to build a
plant, what is the point of making an increase immediately? It is not necessary, and I understand
your point. I've served on the PSA. I served as chairman of the PSA, in Tazewell County before
and I understand all of this. However, we just feel like the immediate need is not to raise the
water and sewer rates. If we get into a position where we can build this, and it has to be done


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0013 ---
Mayor Cury- Thank you, Seth,

Kelly- J understand that there was definitely a lack of communication, | Just knew that the rates
were denied. Mr. O’Daniel has been the only one that has communicated with me. Mr. Taylor
Was very good at communicating and sharing along the way. Thompson and Litton have done an
excellent job in showing how all of these pieces and Parts are integrated. When I got the
information, I did say that We would be happy to save the place and offer for the town. It doesn’t
make sense to Spend addition money right now.

Tam not unreasonable. Yoy are charged with making the decisions, | don't happen to agree with
it, but that's not for me to decide for your town. I can Say that it is better to do it this way based

on my €xperience, byt that is across the Commonwealth that is not Specific to the Town of
Richlands,

Mayor Cury- Thank you Ms. Ward, Is there anyone else who has 4 question for Ms. Ward?

Kelly- One more thing. It was my understanding that a referendum Was signed by the former
council Saying that they would do these things that Were outlined by this rate study,

Mayor Cury- As far as a referendum is concerned, there Were none, It may have been a
resolution. I am really not Sure, but we could check,

Thank you, Ms. Ward for your time.
Doug- Could we have the Town Manager do a comparison of rate increases in the other counties,

Mayor Cury- Doug, I am only asking, would it matter in this situation When we are looking at
finding a ney and improvement System.

Doug- Well] she mentioned Some of the other areas were integrated, ] just think it would be good

I started looking into those documents and T realized that if both parties agreed to hold off for a
year, then it was pointless to 0 through al] those, So, I just need some direction on What you
Uys want me to do, Ifyou 8UYS still want those documents, then I can work on Scanning those
and emailing those to you or having them delivered in you all’s packets, | will try to put a memo
in there explaining how they are al] Connected. So, You guys can kind of see where all these
numbers are coming from.

Rick- Can you just put it in Our next packet?

John- Okay, I can do that. I can tty to have them emailed to yoy Suys in the next 10-14 days,
Mayor Cury- Thank You, everyone, Any other questions?


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0014 ---
Thank you, Ms. Ward so much for joining us tonight. 1 hope you have a wonderful evening.

Next, we have Zoning Added Use, Second Reading of the Hospital Special Care O-2022-07-01.
Kristen, would you like to give the update?

Kristen- We have discussed this at length, and the recommendation right now is that the council
not add the Hospital Special Use as a permitted use of the B-2 Zone. For us to revisit two
options: Redefine the Hospital Special Use to be a little narrower and not encompass the whole
of B-2. Or the other options would be to create a B-3 Zone inside of B-2, that would allow these
types of activities. So, we could control a little more with what was next to residential areas or
more linked to the Hospital, Washington Square, Home Health, and Scottie pharmacy. The
Mullins building has traditionally had medica stuff in it before. So, those would be things we
would look at it as well.

Probably a little bit better way to do it would be to create a B-3 within B-2. I think it would be a
little bit cleaner way to do that.

Mayor Cury- The consideration of the Planning Commission is always important. I would
recommend that we have discussion about this Ordinance and go from there. Mike what would
you suggest?

Michael Thomas- Of course, that is up to council. If they are fine with the first reading from our
last meeting, then you could wave your second reading and have discussion about it. Or you
could table it till the next meeting. That is totally up to council.

Mayor Cury- Okay, I will seek the will of the council on how to proceed.

Doug- I don’t want to hold these people up. Is there any way that we could move to satisfy the
Planning Commission and move forward within 30 days?

Kristen- There is time to write up a new ordinance, put that in the paper, and have a public
hearing by our next meeting. We could dispense with the second reading and pass this as an
emergency Ordinance.

Doug- That sounds fair.

Rick- [am a little bit behind on this. Has there ever been another medical facility in that
building?

Kristen- Yes, and we are not against it being in that building. Our suggestion wasn’t to change
all of B-2. It was just to make it more narrow zone to be medical including that type of use.

Rick- I am good with that. I just can’t sit here and tell these people no when we have had other
medical in that building before. I think we have to do. I don’t see that we have any other option.

Kristen- They haven’t applied for conditional use permit yet. So, I don’t think that will hold them
up for us to do it by the next meeting. If that is council’s wish.

Mayor Cury- John, creating a new zone is a whole new ordinance within itself. Which requires
public hearings, etc. and that requires a lot of work. So, pardon me if it seems I am patronizing
you in anyway. I really am not trying to do that.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0015 ---
John- I think for this one especially, it would just be copying B-2 and then just added the hospital
or rehab language in there, [t really wouldn’t be a whole lot beyond that. We would have to do
the public hearing and the first reading. I don’t think this would be a lot of hard work and
Paperwork to put this in place,

Seth- So, how did we get here? Was a permit put in place and then denied to Operate in that
building?

Seth- So, what did other building apply for like the diet clinic or the OBGYN care that went into
that building before?

John- I guess those fell under primary care.

Seth- What if] wanted to go into a counseling practice in there, because that is Primarily what
these people are doing,

Michael- | did look at counseling. I don’t See that as a listed use. There is not a definition for it. I
am not sure if that Would fit into any of these others, Maybe under Hospital General. I am really

hot sure how those People got in there. The Hospital Special Care Just didn’t fi into anything, so
they were Tequesting that to 80 into B-2, It sounds like B-2 js such a big zone and that is what the
Planning Commission’s big hold up is,

Doug- Isn’t a diet clinic counseling?

Seth- Yes, that is what J don’t understand how these other people go in here. | know John has
inherited a Jot of messes, and it isn’t his fault this stuff happened before he got here, and |

in their business without any regulations, | just think sometimes we make this process much
more difficult than We need it to be.

So, what you are saying is there is no Way they can 80 in and fill out an application and £0 into
that building today?

Permit. Even if itis an Added Use in here, they will have to come in with a Special Use
Tequesting to be placed within there.

Seth- Would it not be simpler instead of us changing things, for them to just apply and us
approve them as 4 Special use.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0016 ---
Seth- So, even if we approve this Ordinance, if anyone wants to move anywhere within this zone
we still have to approve them, right?

Michael- Correct.

Seth- Well that is the simplest thing we can do tonight. Approve this and if anyone else wants to
do something similar maybe next to a residential building that would be an issue with parking,
this council would have to issue a special use permit at that point. So, we are not hurting all of B-
2 by saying you can do ahead and open this up wherever you want. This is just the simplest thing
to do.

Doug- I agree, you can limit where they go from when they apply for the Special Use Permit.

Kristen- We just need to be very careful because you are going to have people say, “well you did
it for this person.”

Seth- That is not what our attorney is saying.

Michael- You will have to approve the Special Use Permit, but as Kristen is saying, if someone
else comes in and says, “well we want to go there and you allowed someone else to do that, why
are you denying us?”

Seth- But if it is a like type of business that is not dispensing medication then I don’t have a
problem with it.

Kristen- What is to stop them from opening up a pharmacy that close there?
Seth- You cannot do that.

Kristen- See that is where you are getting into some legal issues where you are adding conditions
saying you cannot be within 75 feet of a pharmacy. You are adding special cases and adding to
the complexity of this issue.

Seth- At the end of the day we are here to help businesses come here. Not make it to where
people have to jump through 15 hoops that they wouldn’t have to go through if they went
through the county.

Rick- So, what is the hospital under?
Michael- There is a definition for hospital. The hospital is already a permitted use within B-2.
Seth- So, all we are doing is adding a use.

Michael- That is correct. That is all we are doing. We are just looking to see if that is an added
use or should be a permitted use.

Mayor Cury- Okay, we have had discussion and the Planning Commission has already given
their recommendation. Does council want to act on this motion or table it to our next meeting?

Laura- I have a question, is there a way to define what the conditional uses are before we put that
in there? So, we don’t run into any problems with this going forward?


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0017 ---
John- That is what the Planning Commission. was wanting, to do, to ty and narrow the
conditional use down, 8° you are not running into some of these problems.

Michael- There is @ definition for the conditional uses of course if you wanted to change it to

what needs to be in there, that 1s totally up to the council. The relevant part here is “these permits
shall be subject to such cot ditions as the governing body deems necessary 10 carry out the intent
of this chapter » So, it seems pretty ope? at this point that the council cat make any changes to it.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Mike.
Rick- Lhave @ question for the lady that is representing them that is here tonight.

Mayor Cury- Sure. Miss, will you please come forward and state your name and who you
represent.

Desiree- My name ig Desiree Andrews and 1 am the area manager for Spero Health.

Rick- Desires, MY question ig when are y'all going to apply for the permit? Are you all ready
today of tomorrow?

Desirec- We were hoping to open up by the end of the yea preferably by October. AS far as
applying, {am not sure where we are at with that, but | can find out.

Doug- Well, we do not want to hold you UP-

Michael- 1f1 may, it is not that they are waiting to apply. It is that they can’t apply because they
don’t fit into zoning any where and that is why we are here today: We are trying to decide if {hey
are allowed into B-2 and then they can apply-

Mayor Cury- Okay, what s5 council’s pleasure oF the attorney getting with the Planning
Commission and forming 4 B-3 zone?

Doug- Yes: Jeff- Yes, Rick- Yes, Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, and Laura Yes.

Mayor Cuty- Okay; Michael, could you have something ready bY the next meeting? So we can
have a public hearing and the first reading and dispense with the second reading and pass it as an
emergency ordinance? So, then they can apply for the permit?

Michael- Yes.
Desiree- 50, We can come to the meeting next month and we will be ready to apply?
Mayor Cury- Yes- Thank you, Desiree, and thank you members of council for all of yout input.

Okay, now We are on Economic/ Community Development Department Discussion. Does anyone
have anything they would like to gay about this topic?

Laura- | have something t0 say. t spoke as 4 citizen about this at our last meeting, a holding off
and waiting because of the expense, put at the same time We cannot afford not to do it. | was
doing some research and in the Virginia Code, it actually allows the TDA to function as ap EDA
(Economic Development Authority). was doing some research. and a few yeats ago Tazewell
actually created like 4 pybrid. Theirs is called EDA. If we were to do something like that out


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0018 ---
IDA could function as an J/EDA and let them handle some economic development and grants
and lean on the county to still help us. It will also save us from having to hire that position out.

Jeff- Are they paid?

Laura- No, they function as the IDA does.

Jeff- Okay, I knew some of their Commissions are paid.

Laura- Oh, Tazewell does?

Jeff- Yes, their Planning Commissions are paid.

Laura- The Town Code allows us to be able to pay someone to do it.

Jeff- I just wonder if we would be able to find someone who would want to do that.
Laura- I think in the Town Code it allows us to pay someone up to $50 a meeting.
Doug- That is still a lot cheaper than $40,000-$50,000 a year.

Mayor Cury- I appreciate the discussion on pay, but I think the more important discussion is the
community developer.

Jeff- Sorry, I was just curious as to how that got people to serve.

Laura- Just like our IDA board as soon as you have a vacant seat, there is always someone
willing in serve in their place.

{haven’t looked at Tazewell a whole lot, but we can take a closer look at it and see how they
function before we consider hiring someone for this position.

Mayor Cury- What is council’s wishes for the Economic/Community Development as the
position stands right now?

Doug- I think what Laura came up with is great. As far as hiring someone new for the position, I
am ano. We already have 9 people in the central office.

Mayor Cury- Okay, does anyone else have any thoughts?

Kristen- Do we have contacts at Tazewell that we could reach out and see how they are
operating?

John- I could probably reach out and see. I am sure they have staff that helps with the day to day
of this job.

Laura- And I am not opposed to that, I think it is fine to hire someone part-time to do the day-to-
day tasks of this job. I think we just need to explore every other option before we jump right into
hiring someone full-time for this position.

Jeff- I was thinking more of a part-time position, and then see if their a need for a full-time
position.

Kristen- We just need to look at who is going to be doing the grants?


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0019 ---
Mayor Cury- Is the desire of council to hire Someone part-time op wait and get some more
information from Tazewell?

Laura- I think Waiting is the best Options, so we can get some more information from Tazewell,
because no ON€ wants to see someone lose their Part-time job if we decide we are heeding
someone full-time.

Jeff Sure. We can move on.

Mayor Cury- Okay, we are on Personne] Policies Updates, Heather, did you want to explain this?

Mayor Cury- Okay, are there any questions on the Proposed Amendment #] and Amendment #2,
I assume You want a motion?

Seth- I make 4 motion we approve these two amendments, Doug seconded the motion,

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion? All those in favor of the
Motion say yes. All those that Oppose say no. Rol] Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion Carries -6/0.

Mayor Cury- Thank you. Next, we have Rescue Captain Truck (EMS Command Vehicle). We
have a letter from Matt Whited. Is there any discussion on this?

Mayor Cury- Matt, would You care to speak?


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0020 ---
Matt- The vehicles that we currently have is a 2006 Ford Explorer. We got it on a grant, so the
town had about $5,000 in it for the total $25,000. It has about 69,000 miles. We were hoping to
use it for about another year or so at least, but the transmission is out in reverse. So, you can only
go forward, and the frames has a lot of rust on it. The AC system goes in and out depending on
how hot it is outside. So, to replace that vehicle getting a quote on the state bid contracting is
about $39,000 for the vehicle and about $10,000 for the upfit of equipment.

Doug- What model is it?
Matt- 2006.

Doug- Okay. I mean this is what we spoke about a few minutes ago. We are talking about hiring
people and putting new people in the office and we have trucks running that is a 2006. I mean
that's ludicrous. The employees are not given what they need to function, and you got a truck that
is 16 years old. We are not giving them what they need to work with. To me that's ludicrous. The
first thing we should do is have a budget that functions correctly and that we can give our
workers what they need to do their job. I mean this is a great example of why we don't need to go
out and hire people and not worry about the budget. We better look at the budget and get the
workers what they need instead of just blowing it on more employees.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Doug. Does anyone else have any other comments?

Rick- I do. Over here it says that the maintenance on this vehicle was not preformed regularly.
Why is that? This is one of our emergency vehicles. That should be priority.

Matt- That was prior to me getting it. That was the old administration.
Rick- We have to do better than that.
Jeff- We don’t want to buy a truck and it not get taken care of.

Rick- No, this is a lot of money that we are spending, and it not being taken care of. I am not for
that.

Kristen- And there are no grants available to help with this?

Matt- No, this vehicle was bought on a grant. They give out very few of these grants because of
the use and misuse of these type of vehicles.

Seth- Did you have anything in your budget this year for this?

Matt- No, we didn’t think we would have to replace it this soon. We were trying to make it last
as long as we could.

Seth- John, where would we have to get this money from to replace this vehicle?
John- I don’t know. We would have to look into it.

Seth- ] don’t think any of us are against purchasing a new vehicle. We just may have to do a
blended strategy and repair this one until we can get another one in 2023. I am in favor of us
buying a new vehicle. You obviously need one, we just need to let John look at it and see where


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0021 ---
he could get the money from. Maybe from another department that we have budgeted for
something else that could wait a little bit. If there is a way to get the money from somewhere in
the budget, I think we need to do it.

Doug- Wasn’t there another vehicle in the budget?

John- There was another truck in last years budget that we ordered hoping to get it this year, but
its not coming until next year.

Seth- Is this going to be the same way? If we order it now, will we have to wait until next year to
be able to get the vehicle?

Matt- The company that I got this quote from J&H Chevy in Richmond they had 3 on their lot,
but when those vehicles are gone, we would have to order one and wait until it came in.

Laura- Can we use ARPA money for that? I mean I know it's not ideal,

John- Essentially the money, hopefully over the next six months won't be ARPA money, it will
be freed up funds in a balanced reserve. So, it can be spent however council chooses.

Laura- Being that this is for Rescue, could we do that right now? Could we take it out of the
ARPA fund?

Michael- I'm not as up on the ARPA money, I think Brad was looking at that. So, I would have

to look into that. I was thinking that the ARPA funds were used as lost revenue for salaries for
last year.

John- And the auditors are working on helping us get all that lined up so then it will be freed up
as a fund balance.

Laura- So, how and I'm genuinely asking you, how were we able to take $25,000 from our
ARPA fund and use it for Pop-Up Richlands? We are sitting here with a rescue captain who can't
go in reverse.

John- Essentially, we are taking the ARPA money and spending it on salaries. Then the money
we have in the budget for the salaries is now freed up. So, that's where that money came from. It
is no longer ARPA money at that point. I just try to not call it ARPA money, so we don’t have to
go through those restrictions,

Seth- So if that's how you are going to find it. If you had those funds available to do that in the
budget, then I don't care to make a motion to approve the purchase of a new vehicles.

Laura- And I will second the motion.

Rick- So there is already a vehicle approved to purchase in this year’s budget?
John- For the fire department, it was supposed to be purchased last year.

Seth- It has already been ordered, I am assuming?

John- No. it has not been ordered.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0022 ---
Laura- Is his functional Heather?
Heather- He is driving it, so J assume so.
Rick- I know everyone wants a new vehicle, I mean I do too.

Heather- I don't think that's the issue. I mean I think that the problem that Keith will possibly run
into is even if he does purchase one currently, then we will not get it until our next budget. Even
though we have got it in there.

Rick- Can we move that money to purchase this vehicle since it is sitting in Richmond?
Heather- I mean I couldn't just automatically do that.
John- We would have to do a budget amendment.

Heather- So if that is the direction council wants to go then we would have to do a budget
amendment just like we did with this one.

Seth- At the same time go ahead and order that one for next year, if that's the case.

John- We can do that. We will bring a budget amendment and put it in the consent agenda for
next month.

Laura- Or if you wanted to use ARPA funds or however you guys are doing it.

Seth- I make a motion to move forward to purchase this vehicle for the Rescue Department at the
discretion of our Town Manager and Finance Director figuring out how we are going to do that
inside the budget. Whether it is moving funds from the existing vehicle or funds from these other
funds. Laura seconded the motion.

Mayor Cury- Okay, does everyone understand the motion? We have a motion and a second. Do
we have any discussion?

Doug- Okay you all just made my point that I've been trying to get across all night. See how hard
it was to buy a vehicle for the rescue? Yet we were sitting here 15 minutes ago talking about
hiring a person and paying $47,000 for an Economic Developer. I mean that makes no sense at
all. We should be buying for infrastructure, like vehicles for the police and for things that we
need before we add personnel that we can do without. I mean that's my take on it.

Jeff- My only concern is like when we talked about. I mean I don't mind spending the money if it
is going to be taking care of.

Laura- There needs to be accountability with the maintenance.

Rick- I'm with Jeff. We need maintenance records kept on all your vehicles. I mean that one and
the fire department both is going to have to start keeping and turning in their maintenance
records. If it happened once, it could happen again, and they will be back in here wanting another
one. I don't care to buy one but when we buy something, we need to start taking care of them.

Laura- The Town Council used to have the department heads in here every month giving reports
and at some point, that stopped. So, if you wanted to bring the department heads in every month


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0023 ---
and have them be responsible for that. If at some point, we are seeing that they are not doing that
then council can deal with it.

Mayor Cury- Matt, I think what members of council are saying, are you accepting the
responsibility personally to make sure this vehicle is looked after?

Matt- Oh yes.

Mayor Cury- Okay, thank you, Matt. Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further
discussion? All those in favor of the motion say yes. All those that oppose say no. Roll Call-
Doug- Yes, Jeff- Yes, Rick- Yes, Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion carries -6/0.

Mayor Cury- Next, we are on Water Treatment Plant Repair Discussion.

John- So, I spoke to some of our water guys, and they have had some equipment start to have
some issues. They are working on getting some quotes and trying to find ways to not replace
some of that. I was hoping to have some of that information present, but they are still working on
trying to get together on a proposal. Essentially, they have had a couple valves that are not
working and when they are coming in the next morning, it is causing several hours of work just
to get back to being able to operate. So, because this is costing us money, time and production, I
think this is something that we need to discuss. Even if we are holding off on the major project, I
think we need to start doing some small repairs, even though it might be a little expensive along
the way to make sure we don't get to a place where we are losing more money than the cost
would have been. Especially with the delay, right now if we were to order some of these parts,
we are looking at six months to a year.

Mayor Cury- It is necessary to maintain the water plant which supplies us with potable water.
John- So hopefully I'll be able to get some more information at our next meeting.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, John. Does everyone understand that? We want to be able to drink our
water.

Next, we are on Charter Change Discussion (Mayor, Ordinance, and Term Limits)

In our packets we have the Resolutions that were passed by the council along with a copy of the
charter. These are up for discussion.

John- So, essentially these are the three that were approved by the council several months back.
We were not able to get them to the General Assembly in time for them to consider these
changes. There were other changes considered that the council discussed. Laura asked where we
were on this, and I told her, and she asked if we could start up that discussion again. So, if there
is something we want to bring back to the General Assembly, this is the process.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, John.

Laura- So, like John said I was the one who requested this to be placed on here. As the process
happened, I was here on the other side of the podium speaking about it as a citizen. I believe it
went very quickly. There were some changes that were made that between the public hearing and
then the passage of it all and everyone who did speak on it, citizen wise, were against most of


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0024 ---
everything. So, because it did not go through the General Assembly like we were told it was
going to, I think we need to hold off on the charter changes. I think it is such a big deal, but the
charter changes need to be taken a lot more slowly. If this is something that the council wants to
do in the future, but for right now, I am making a motion to resend Resolution R-2022-01-01,

Mayor Cury- Okay there is a motion on the floor to resend Resolution R-2022-01-01,
Doug- I seconded that motion.

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion?

Michael- And that is the charter change for term limits, correct?

Laura- Yes, and I plan on doing these resolutions in three separate motions.

Seth- So, what is the issue with term limits? ] think term limits are necessary.

Laura- The only issue with me was with how quickly everything moved along and some of the
wording in it. I think there might be some other things in a charter change that we want to
change. Just somethings that the citizens have brought up and somethings I have been talking
about in council about employees working for the town at the same time as being on the town
council. Stuff like that and I think if we are going to make charter changes, this is not something
we need to be doing frequently. So, if we take all of these off of the table right now rather than
taking one to the General Assembly right now and then taking another one in six months, Let the
current council or the council coming in J anuary discussed if they want to change the charter and
what changes they want to implement and holding off on doing these at this time.

Seth- I wouldn't want to vote on any charter changes seeing that I'm just going to be on here till
December. Since you have a new council coming in January, could you not just table these until
January? Then change whatever they think is necessary. I don't see anything wrong with this but
here is my question, let's say on the new council that everybody agrees that this is a good
resolution, but if you decide to resend this now then you are going to have to have another public
hearing and have to go through the whole process again,

Laura- It is basically going to have to happen anyway because the vote that was taken was to
push this through the General Assembly last year.

Seth- I understand. So, we are going to have to redo this anyways.

Laura- We are going to have to do that anyways because that General Assembly session ended
and a new one is getting ready to pick up and they are going to want the new resolutions.

Seth- I just wanted to understand why we were doing what we were doing.
Jeff- So, we can’t put this year’s Resolution into next year’s Resolution?

Mayor Cury- We could, Jeff. It Just depends on how the vote goes. There is a motion and a
second,

Jeff- As the current Resolution that we have passed, since we didn’t get it to the General
Assembly last year, can we take it to this year’s Assembly.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0025 ---
Michael- If you wanted charter changed, you would need to do that before January when they go
into session. So, we had submitted that to Delegate Moorefield, but it was after the time that they
had set everything for the legislative session.

Jeff- So, is he going to present it for next year?

Michael- I am unsure if he is going to present it or ;f we would need to restart. 1 think it would be
appropriate to resend if that is what council’s desire is.

Laura- I think if we are going to do that, they would want a more current motion not something
from last year. I think we need to wait until January and allow the new council which would be a
more permanent council to make that motion then.

Seth- Well you have a good framework and maybe not reinventing the will.

Laura- That is right.

Kristen- If we waited until January and presented it then, then nothing would happen until the
following year, correct?

Michael- They start in January, so if you did want changes, I would suggest having it ready to
present to Delegate Moorefield and Senator Hackworth before January.

Laura- But in all honestly, the timeline to submit new things to the General Assembly has
already passed or at least coming upon it.

Kristen- Could these be pulled back in January if they were left alone before they were
presented?

Mayor Cury- It could, by the council. Whether or not it could be introduced in the General
Assembly by Senator Hackworth and Delegate Moorefield. I worked with Delegate Moorefield
over something that was not council related and he wanted it in by October. So, to answer your
question, January is late.

Kristen- Right. So, if we table these for now and leave them where they are, then in January, he
could present them the way they are, but if we resent them, we have to start completely over and

we are looking at two years out. Even if the new council thought these things were reasonable.
Doug- I just think we need to give the new council their say in it.

Kristen- That is what I am saying, even in January if the new council didn’t agree, then we could
contact Delegate Moorefield and Senator Hackworth and say we need those back.

Doug- I think if they were ready to present, then January would be to late. { think in January, we
would have a full new council and we should take it kind of slow. I am for term limits also, but

these were kind of hurried and J think the new council should have a say on some of these.

Jeff- How were they hurried?


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0026 ---
Laura- They were just rushed through the whole process after you guys made some changes to
them. We didn’t get to have another public hearing about them. So, if a citizen was concerned
about something, they didn’t have time to speak.

Jeff- There were like three public hearings on them.

Laura- No, there were only one. You had a public hearing and you guys made some tweaks to it
and I asked over and over for another public hearing and it was never granted. Under the
premise, we had to get it in so that it could be affective July 1‘ of last year, which didn’t happen.
I just think the new council should get to decide whether they are fine with these changes or if
they want to change something else in it. Changing the charter is such a big deal, it is the
founding document of this town.

Rick- Has anyone ever changed the charter before?

Jeff- Yes, John gave us a paper of all the changes that has been made. Doug, I think you were on
there the last time the charter was changed.

Mayor Cury- Everyone voted yes.
Jeff- See Doug, you voted yes. You have changed the charter before.

Mayor Cury- Okay, I would like for us to move on. There is a motion and a second. Is there any
further discussion?

Seth- Since there are three different Resolutions, if we are all fine with the term limits, why don’t
we go ahead and send that one on to the General Assembly and then maybe hold off on one of
the others, if we do not agree with something in the other Resolutions.

Laura- If council wants to move forward on any of these Resolutions, just to be on the safe side,
we do need to have another public hearing. The motion that was made last year was to submit it
for last year’s session. That session has come and gone, so we need to make a motion to submit it
for this year’s session. They can’t just pick it back up without a motion for this session.

Jeff- My motion last year was just to present it to the General Assembly. That is why I was
asking Michael, if we needed to make a new motion or if they could just present it this year.

Michael- The motion that was made last year was just to present. I would have to reach out to
Delegate Moorefield or Senator Hackworth and find out if they would need a new motion to be
able to present it this in this upcoming session. I haven’t had any contact with them on whether
they plan on presenting it or not. That would be up to the council’s discretion on whether or not
you would like me to reach out to them and ask them to present it or table it.

Laura- Mr. O’Daniel have you had any contact with Senator Hackworth’s office?

John- I spoke with Tom, it was my understanding that they did not plan on resubmitting it unless
they got direction from council to do so. I don’t want to put that in as official, but that is what I
recall from our conversation. If 1 would have known we would be going in this direction, I would
have gotten it in writing.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0027 ---
Mayor Cury- Okay, we have 4 motion and a Second. Is there any desire from Laura or Doug to
resend their motion to consider this a different way?

Doug & Laura- No,

they were hurried. I am not against term limits Just think we need to let the new council decide
On What they want to do.

Doug- Why can’t we tesend them, and the Hew council can act on all three of them? I just think
ts; Ij

Mayor Cury- So, Ms. Mollo you want your motion to stand?
Laura- Yes.
Mayor Cury- Doug, do you want your Second to stand?

Doug- Yes.

Mayor Cury- Okay, if there is not further discussion, I will ask for a roll cal] vote, all those in
favor of the motion say yes. All those that Oppose say no. Rol| call- Doug- Yes, Jeff. No, Rick-

Mayor Cury- Okay, there is a tie, and this is a motion to resend. I wil] vote No. Motion fails- 4/3.
Laura- I make 4 motion to resend Resolution R-2022-01-02. Doug Seconded the motion,

Mayor Cury- We have 4 Motion and a second, any further discussion?

This is about the duties of the Mayor and Vice Mayor.

Doug- I think it would be hard for the Vice Mayor to Conduct an unbiased meeting and stil] have
vote on the motions,

Jeff- I don?t understand what you trying to Say. Basically, if the mayor is not here, we have to
have somebody that Tuns the Meeting. If the Mayor is not here, then it js the Vice Mayor that
conducts the meeting and they do not get a vote.

Doug- It changes the whole focus of the meeting. Unless it is a tie, the mayor does not get a vote,
That gives the Vice Mayor more Power she can vote anytime and run the meeting. You cannot
Tun an unbiased meeting,

Jeff- I have already Spoke, that was MY one time,
Mayor Cury- Thank you, Jeff. Doug, would you like to speak?
Doug- Can J Save mine to last?

Mayor Cury- No, we are going to go in order. I can’t hear if everyone is Speaking all at once. So,
you may go ahead.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0028 ---
Doug- Someone who runs the meeting cannot be unbiased because they can portray that meeting
and they can make certain statements that would change votes. The Mayor or Vice Mayor can
focus that meeting in a different direction and I think it would be biased for them to run the
meeting in a way to fucus their votes on what they want the votes to be. That is why you don't
get a vote unless it's a tie. That is why the Vice President of the United States doesn't get a vote
unless it's a tie. There is a reason for that because they run the meeting and common sense would
tell you if you were running that meeting, you can change the direction of that meeting and sort
of be biased in your opinion and then you turn around and vote the way that you focus that

meeting.

Jeff- But the Vice Mayor wouldn't get an additional vote. It would just be their vote as 4 council
member. It would be 3/3, the motion fails. It doesn't pass. If we are going to continue to do this,
like I said, why don't we just move it forward with more public hearings to discuss these. If that
is what we want to do ot if that's what pleases the council members to do. If they want more
input from the public that's fine with me.

Laura- I'm good with that on the term limits. However, on this one part of what I really disagree
with was you guys took out the fact that the Mayor is not a member of council. That is going to
be very confusing with the term limits. [ mean you guys simplified it before it came into this’

final resolution. The acting Mayor would get two votes if it were a tie they would vote once as 4
council member and once as the acting Mayor.

Jeff- No, we are elected as a councilman.
Laura- Am I incorrect? If I am incorrect, someone please tell me.

Jeff- That is what Brad told us. They would not break the tie. It would be 3/3, the motion fails. If
Rod is not here and Tam the acting Vice Mayor, I vote and it’s a tie 3/3, the motion fails. I don’t
get to vote again because we don’t have the Mayor here to break it.

Laura- So, is that the language of this resolution?
Jeff- Yes, because there would never be a Vice Mayor. No one would ever take it.
Doug- I was a Vice Mayor for 10 years.

Jeff- But you wouldn't take it. Mary Ann asked you to take it and you wouldn't take it because
you thought you would lose your vote.

Laura- Are we ever going to run into a situation where the acting Vice Mayor would come in and
say, I’m not voting I am just vetoing. Because voting and vetoing is two completely different
things.

Mayor Cury- The charter says that the Mayor or Vice Mayor cannot vote on Ordinances and
Resolutions.

Michael- On a Resolution or Ordinance you have to have 4 votes anyways. So, it would fail
regardless. .

Laura- | asked a question earlier and the attorney started to answet and got interrupted.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0029 ---
Michael- So, my understanding, they would get their original vote as the Vice Mayor because
they are a member of council, but they would not gain an additional vote to break a tie. I think
we are just rehashing something that is going to have to be voted on again anyways. I just need
some direction on whether or not I am going to present these charter changes to the General
Assembly.

Laura- So, would it be better for me to resend my motion and us vote on whether or not we are
going to send this to the General Assembly.

Michael- Yes.
Laura- Okay, I withdrawal my motion.
Doug- I withdrawal my second.

Laura- I make a motion to hold off on presenting Resolutions R-2022-01-01, R-2022-01-02, R-
2022-01-03 to the General Assembly. Doug seconded the motion.

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion? All those in favor of the
motion say yes. All those that oppose say no. Roll Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff- No, Rick- Yes, Kristen-
No, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion carries -4/2.

Mayor Cury- Next, we have Electric System Discussion/Update. Okay, John, would you like to
speak to this?

John- Essentially, we sent out information and I haven't heard back on anything. I don’t know,
Seth if you have heard anything recently from them?

Seth- Mary called me today actually. So, one of the things that they have asked that we do is if
we could have our legal counsel look it over. I told them I would bring this up at our meeting
tonight. We would need everybody to give their permission to do it. John has a copy of
everything that they have sent to AEP. AEP would like for you to review the contracts and also
to involve Blue Ridge into discussion. We just to see you know if we were to sell to AEP what
does that look like. However, they want us, from our perspective, to have our legal counsel say if
we did this then X would happen, or Y would happen or whatever it is. Do you mind doing that?
You can call me when you get into that, and we can discuss it further. What she's wanting us to
do is to come back to them with a response from how we view this legally. If we withdrew from
these contracts, this is what would happen. It could take six months or a month or whatever. Just
so they can enter that into their equation and then they can get us an answer. I relaid our last
conversation from the last meeting that we have two major things that are in limbo until we
know what their answer is. That is the truck and the battery storage project and I told him we
really need to get some information back before September meeting if at all possible. So, if we
can make this a priority if council and the Mayor is okay with reviewing the contracts with Blue
Ridge and I guess AMP and whatever else it is.

John- Yeah, I can do that.

Seth- Just see what it would look like for us to pull out of that and that kind of thing. They just
want to make sure they understand everything.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0030 ---
Doug- Okay, one question, | don't think it's a question if we withdraw because we OWn and that's
going to really be g tickly Situation because we OWn part of those plants. We Own like 2% of I so
You just can't Withdrawal.

Seth- The difference ig We ate going to have a big pool of Cash if we sel] the electrical] System,
There wil] bea reserve,

Doug- Let Mme ask you this, six Years ago we had a$ 1,500,000 to $2,000,000. I don't think

off the lop of it then it's a God sent to Richlands. If we sel] Our gift that only a few communities
in Virginia have. I'll be long gone, and the Next council wil] Come in here and Waste what we got.
I don't trust future Councils anymore then I have trusted the last 20 years of council. They are not
very good stewards,

Mayor Cury- Doug, I Will ask youina simply question. Are you doubting US selling our electric
System?

Doug- Yes

Seth- This is a future discussion, All we are doing right now is trying to figure out if it is possible
to sell to AEP.

Doug- I have Studied our electric System for years and it makes Money. We just Spend it Wrong,
It makes Over $ 1,000,000 a year and we Waste it. It is q money maker if Wwe had a council that
Would take control of it and run it correctly,

Kristen- ] thought when We talked to the Battery Storage People that they had to have a
discussion by the end of August,

John- That is part of Our next discussion, lam S0ing to try to schedule 5
i ut wh


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0031 ---
Mayor Cury- What dates were you looking at John?

John- I was thinking the 23" or the 25 "Twas trying to give Blue Rudge and GDS two dates in
case one didn’t work for them.

Mayor Cury- I think everyone is good for the 23" at 6:00.

Mayor Cury- Okay, are we ready to move on?

Michael- Real quick, is it council consensus for me to start looking over the contracts with the
electrical system,

Members of Council- Yes.

Mayor Cury- Okay, Dispatch discussion. Do you want to set a date for that?

John- Dispatch is something that we want to look into moving to the county. Jerry and I have had
Some discussion about what some of those changes will look like. They have also put a freeze on

’ .

hiring people at the police station until] Wwe decide what we are going to do, | just think we need
to all sit down and have discussion about it and what that transition will look like.

Mayor Cury- Let’s talk about a date for the dispatch discussion,
Laura- I am fine with the 23". id say let’s just do it all at one time.
Kristen- Yes, it can’t be no longer than a council meeting.

John- Okay, can we pick a back-up date in case Blue Ridge and Gps can’t make it on the 2314


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0032 ---
Mayor Cury- Okay, what is another date that would work for you guys? Is the 25", at 6:00 okay?
Members of Council- Yes.
Mayor Cury- Next, we have Executive/Closed Session Pursuant to VA Code Section.

Jeff- I make a motion that we go into closed session pursuant to VA Code Section 2.2-3711 (A)
(1) Personnel. Rick seconded the motion.

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion? All those in favor of the
motion say yes. All those that oppose say no. Roll Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff- Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion carries -6/0.

Mayor Cury- We are back in regular session. I will entertain a motion to return to regular
session.

Laura- I make a motion that we come back into regular session. Seth seconded the motion.

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion? All those in favor of the
motion say yes. All those that oppose say no. Roll Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff- Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura-~ Yes. Motion carries -6/0.

Mayor Cury- Next, I would ask council to make a motion to certify that the entirety of the
conversation was precisely to observe the Executive/Closed Session Pursuant to Virginia Code
section 2.2-3711(A)(1) -Personnel. In doing so you are certifying that nothing was discussed
other than the business at hand. Is there a motion for that?

Laura- I make a motion that nothing was discussed except for the business at hand. Rick
seconded the motion.

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion? All those in favor of the
motion say yes. All those that oppose say no. Roll Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff- Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion carries -6/0.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, members of councils. Okay we shall move on to our next order of
business. We are on Town Manager Report- Year End Reporting Contract Update and
Miscellaneous. John?

John- Okay, so J have the year reporting contract. I mentioned this a couple months ago, we put
it out for bid, and we only received one bid that we felt was extremely high and some from
somebody that we didn't feel was qualified to do the job. I have two copies of the new proposal. I
have tabbed what their cost is. They just put an hourly cost in there because it depends, and each
place is a little bit different. Then up to the second tab is the other municipalities that they
currently work for and there's a list of them there that are all the municipalities near us that we
can easily compare ourselves to. Heather reached out to several of them today and their cost on
the year end reporting is usually $25,000-$30,000 depending on how much they have going on.
That is for the first year then it drops after that to $20,000-$25,000, but that's kind of what we are
expecting on this. This is who our auditor also recommended because they are used to working
with them on other audits for these new municipalities. So, I wanted to get a consensus from


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0033 ---
council to move forward with this so we can get that taken care of. So, they can start closing out
the audit and getting that ready to present.

Kristen- Who has been doing this for us?

Kristen- What is the expected cost?

John- We expect $25,000 to $30,000, Heather called and talked to some of the other
municipalities on that list and that's what they said for the first year because I think the first year,
they have got a little more work to get it you set up and then hopefully the next year it is not as
much. Some drop up $5,000 to $10,000.

Rick- So, how much does the audit cost?

Mayor Cury- Just some quick glance it looks like everyone around us uses this firm. John, do
you want a motion of this?

John- Yes. Just some direction.

Seth- Mr. Mayor, I make a motion to hire Hicok, Brown & Company to perform this audit. Laura
seconded the motion.

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion? All those in favor of the
motion say yes. All those that Oppose say no. Roll Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff- Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion carries -6/0.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, John. Did you have anything on miscellaneous?

John- It was already mentioned, but I did want to tell everybody that we did receive $105,000
grant for doing small business revolving loans for those businesses. Originally, we applied for
$75,000 but we applied in a year that they didn't have a whole lot of solid applications. So, we
were able to receive additional funding for that, So, that is something we are hoping to get the
ball rolling on. We plan to work with Mary Ann because they do a similar program. We just

The last thing, I mentioned earlier is we have had a lot of transition and turnover if there is ever

anything on the agenda or comes up that you are caught off guard or not aware of what is going
on just shoot me a text or an e-mail and I'll try to bring you up speed or i will have it represented.

Doug- The revolving loan, how does that work?


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0034 ---
John- So, essentially a business may need $5,000 for inventory and they can't go to a traditional
bank without paying 10 %-15% interest. We could give them a loan at 3% interest. They would
borrow the money from us, and as they repaid it, it would go back into that fund to go back out
and be reloaned. Essentially, this is the nest egg to be able to give those small business their
Joans and help those businesses through those times where they need more inventory and just
don't have the capital.

Doug- So. if they don't pay it back, who is responsible?

John- The individual. So, the way Mary Ann does it, it is attached to the individual versus the
business. So, if the business files bankruptcy it falls back on the individual. It is more like a
personal loan. However, I'm not in banking but that is what I understand how Mary Ann does it
to make sure it goes with the person not the business.

Doug- Have they ever had a lot of defaults?

John- I think Mary Ann had one in the last 5-10 years. I don’t know how long they have been
doing this.

Doug- Who is going to be in charge of this?

John- It was going to be to Economic Developer, but I don't know we will have to figure that out
with our discussion on the IDA/E/IDA.

Seth- I talked with John about this and he was going to get the parameters that Mary Ann uses
for their program. No sense in reinventing the wheel since they have been doing it successfully
for many years. So, basically it is simplified, if you meet A, B, criteria then John can approve or
the IDA or whoever that proving body is can approve them for the loan. You would set two dates
or one day a month and all applications have to be received by the 10th of the Sth or whatever
that is before the meeting then he can give the recommendations and the IDA can approve them.

Doug- Can we have regular updates with the council?

Seth- Yeah, I think you could he would just roll that into the next council packet and say we
approved these loans or whatever because it is all public knowledge. We had a similar revolving
loan fund on Cumberland Plateau, and they still used it. It is for larger dollars and sure you are
going to have defaults but every bank in this town people owe money to. However, that is not the
main focus. Like he said if they had one default in 10years, that is pretty good. You are trying to
help people who are in business to be able to do some things that they may or may not be able to
do. Most people are appreciative enough of that to make the payments.

Mayor Cury- Okay, thank you everyone. Does anyone have any further questions? Next, we
have Attorney Comments. Michael?

Michael- I received an e-mail to look into a property for an easement electric ride away. I haven't
had the ability to do a full search on that. I did find a plat here, but I would need the time to do a
full-on title search. It sounds like there is a request to move a power pole. Is that correct? Where
Shoney's is at.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0035 ---
John- Where Shoney’s ig there is a potential business that wants to take that down or rebuild a
new structure and they need their electricity to be running from the back versus from the front.
We need to make sure that we have the Proper easements through that Property to that pole that
is already there. In our little bit ofa search, we were not able to determine for Sure. So, before
they spend a Whole lot of time and Money. We need to look into it and make sure Wwe do it
properly, Essentially, y'all wanted Council’s approval to move forward with that.

Michael- { did receive back the red so the red has been filed and has been approved by the Judge
for the Special election, So, there wil] be two Special elections this November ag Well as the
normal elections,

Also, I was going to Say that I did send Morgan the letter under you guys’ direction, So, I
assume he received that letter.

Mayor Cury- Okay, anything else?
Michael- No, that is all I have, thank you.

Mayor Cury- Okay, we are on Council Member Reports, and these are none Voting items.
Kristen?

Kristen- Nothing from me, I think we have talked about everything I had.
Mayor Cury- Okay, thank you, Kristen. Seth?

Seth- Same for me. I am good,

Mayor Cury- Okay, thank you, Seth. Doug?

Doug- I have two things, F irst thing is the road that goes up to Phillip Horton's house. Is that a
Private road or I've had a lot of complaints On that road.

Laura- I have had a lot of citizens contact me about that as well. I was told that it is Private and


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0036 ---
John- Yeah, I'll look into it. If it is private, the best thing we can do is probably pay for some
gravel and bring it out there and spread it for him, but I'll look into it. I'll include that in my e-
mail update with a couple of other items you all have requested tonight.

Doug- Are there anyways we can turn it over to the town to maintain?

Seth- The town is a little different than the county, but I can give you that conversation anytime

you want. Anytime somebody comes with a road like that we had like literally hundreds of what
we call orphan roads that we took over and you are agreeing to take care and maintain that road

for all eternity.

Doug- The next thing is I can understand why anyone would want to sell the electric system
because it's been terrible for the citizens. The cost and we are much higher than what you pay for
AEP. If we decide not to sell it, just my suggestion, I will make a motion later once we get
through this that council agrees to mirror AEP’s price. The same price and the same structure
and I can assure you if we do that, we will make money. We won't lose it and we will make
money for the shared expense plus be equal to AEP. I think citizens will understand if we have to
go up or if we go down if we stay with AEP and that's the way it should be because they are
regulated by the SCC. We are not. If we stay with them then I think that will assure our citizens,
we are doing the best we can with prices.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Doug. Rick?
Rick- Do we have a public access channel?
John- Yes, we do. It's 188 on spectrum problem.

Rick- People have asked me and I didn’t know what to tell them. I have one more thing. The
sewer lines smoking, where are we at on that?

John- I believe they are done now.

Rick- We are done? Okay. because if you have to do it again, please notify the people because
they are getting calls to 911. I know that if 911 gets a call, they have no choice but to go out on it
and that can be a costly trip when nothing is wrong.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Rick. Laura?

Laura- I have a couple things that I told people I would bring up. One was the Cliff St property
another concern is on Mason St. It is completely blacked out. They don't have a streetlight. They
asked a couple years ago, and we were told that this couldn't or wouldn't whatever the case was
put a streetlight up there. If we could look at the possibility of that. Another citizen asked about
the trash and the junk cars on Buschel Ave and the enforcement on that. One citizen asked me to
bring up the there's a section on Plantation Drive in Hidden Valley that is very narrow, and the
town has never maintained it because they have had a hard time paving it and it is in pretty bad
condition and citizens feel like if they are paying the taxes, everybody deserves the same equal
services. Which also brings up paving on 609 which is on Kents Ridge that road is in horrible
condition. The sides of it are not even being patched at this point. At some point, in the past,
there was like a paving schedule. I don't know if paving is being done right now or what the deal


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0037 ---
is. I know it's impossible to pave all the roads at once but even to take sections like with the
paving schedule and help people out. The last thing for the citizen concerns was the brakes on
the trash truck are bothering a lot of people especially early in the morning. I'm not sure if you
guys hear it but it sounds kind of like an airhorn going off when they come down the street. My
concerns, I had a question about the town website. before you were here Mr. O’ Daniel, there was
a donation of some sort for the town website to be updated and it was never done. I don't know
where, who, what, when, where, or why.

John- I know that Ashley was working on that before she left. They were working on it through
the county.

Laura- If we could find out because the website is not very user friendly. Also, I had asked about
the amount of accounts that the town currently holds. A couple years ago in a yearly audit, there
were less than 10 and the town council at that time were told that that was to many accounts.
Now we have 25 and some of those accounts I know have to be separated but what can be
consolidated I think we need to look into consolidating. So, that it is easier to keep track of
everything. The last thing that I have is a couple weeks ago there was a ribbon cutting for a new
business, I was not made aware of it until the morning of by private citizen. I would have loved
to have been there, but it was done on such short notice. So, if you could give notice to the
council prior to these ribbon cuttings, I'm sure you would see more of us attending. Thank you
very much.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Laura. J eff?

Jeff- Yes, I have a couple things. I wanted to say how excited everything was about Saturday,
July 30". The Don't Stop Believing SK had around 100 participants. The 5K-10K started right at
the section house and I would like to say thank you to Jerry Gilbert and all his staff for helping
us organize it, plan it, and make sure all the runners and walkers were safe. I thought it was a
great turn out, and a got cause to support Saint Jude Children's Research Hospital. Later that
night, Ramp-Up Richlands put on the 1st annual Rock the Clinch, and it was overwhelming
successful. People are still talking about it and we had a great time down there at the Police
Station. I just had a fun night, and everybody was just ecstatic about it and I thought it was great
success. It sortof set us up to move forward next year to have it bigger and better hopefully. So,
we are looking forward to that and want to remind everything everybody about the Back to
School Bash this weekend. It is Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. There is a free movie on Friday
night at the Greenway. Then Saturday at Critterville, there will be backpacks. I think there were
volunteers down there tonight packing the bag. So, I want to appreciate all their help and all the
hard work that they put together this.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Jeff. Next, we have Mayor Comments. I just want to say, I was out of
town that weekend. I had a vacation plan with my family. We had a great time. I did see on
Facebook lots of pictures and I was very pleased that people participated, and it seemed like
quite a variety of ages that participated. We are very pleased that they wanted to have it there and
they made a concerted effort to have a display of race T-shirts and things there to go along with
this. [have had a lot of compliments on the concert, the Journey Tribute Band. People have
talked to me about it a lot. So, I want to thank all those who supported it because town events are


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0038 ---
important. Obviously, I don't know when the next one is. I guess it would be the fall festival. Is it
scheduled?

John- I don’t see anything on the calendar for that. After the Back to Schoo! Bash, I guess it
would be the Honey Festival or the Christmas parade. However, there is nothing unless Ramp-
Up has something on their calendar.

Mayor Cury- Okay, well I appreciate that. We have traditionally had something the past two or
three years in the fall and I just wanted to check on it.

John- I know there was a community organization that did last year but there's nothing the town
sponsored,

Mayor Cury- Thank you, John, and one other thing, one of my former students who's an
employee at food lion, after we passed the ordinance about Recreational Vehicles, every time
that I am in there, he wants me to give him a copy of the ordinance and I am reluctant to do that.
I said you can read it online, but it wasn't signed until I could get over here after my vacation do
it. So, I will be glad to supply him a copy. He wanted me to send it to his Facebook Messenger
and that's just not my way to communicate. So, do we have a signed copy on our website? Or on
our Facebook page? So, could you ask our administrator to do that? I don't mind at all to do it
and he's a super young man and he said I cannot wait to ride my dirt bike in the mornings to
work.

I just think that we are going to have to tweak a whole lot of things here, but it is not my place to
do that. I would appreciate the clarity. I also had a request for paving of Kents Ridge Rd and I've
relaid that to the manager prior to tonight’s meeting. So, do we have any further business to
discuss tonight? We have a workshop coming up on the 23rd maybe the 25th pending on a
couple people’s schedule. Our next regular schedule meeting is September the 13th at 6:00 PM.
So, if there are no further business being brought before this council, I would ask for a motion to
adjourn.

Rick- I make a motion to adjourn this meeting. Jeff seconded the motion.

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion? All those in favor of the
motion say yes. All those that oppose say no. Roll Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff- Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion carries -6/0.

Adjourned!!

Rodney D. Cury, Mayor

Rebekah Hackworth, Clerk


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0039 ---
The Richlands Town Counci| held a “Workshop” on August 2374 2022, in the Richlands Council
Chambers at 6:00 pm with the following present:

Mayor: Rod p. Cury
Town Manager: John O’ Daniel
Town Clerk: Rebekah Hackworth

Council Members: Doug Ratliff, Jefe Hurst, Rick Woods, Kristen Thompson-Whitt, Seth
White, and Laura Mollo.

Town Attorney: Michael] Thomas
Mayor Cury opened the meeting.
Kristen Thompson-Whitt &ave the invocation,
Mayor Cury led the Pledge of Allegiance,

Mayor Cury- We have before us the agenda and there has been a Tequest to alter the order of the
agenda, no deletions/additions to the agenda just alter the order. So, I wil] entertain a motion to
do so.

Doug- I make 4 motion to move the dispatch discussion to the first Patt of the Meeting instead of
at the end. Jeff Seconded the motion,

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion? All those in favor of the
motion say yes. All those that Oppose say no. Rol] Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff. Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion Carries -6/0.

Mayor Cury- First Up, We have the dispatch discussion, John, would you like to introduce that?

80ing forward.

Does counci] want us to keep the PD open 24 hours with Someone there? They wouldn't be
dispatchers but there would be some administrative staff, so that there would be somebody there
if somebody comes in in an emergency, Or are YOu wanting to do Seven days a week, 8 hours a


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0040 ---
day or six days a week, 12-hour shifts. What is the direction of council? If we give dispatch to
the county, do we want to keep those people that are there currently? We only have two full time
dispatchers, so we are burning through a lot of overtime right now. If we are going to continue to
keep it open 24 hours a day, then we need to go ahead and look at hiring versus if we are not,
then we know to not look in that direction. I just wanted to have a discussion on this and have a
timeline of what we are looking at and then figure out what council sees that it will look like
down here after the transition happens.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, John. I am sure members of council has a lot of thoughts on this. We
have Sheriff Hieatt here and Jonathan Hankins. Sheriff, would you like to come at this time and
speak and answer any questions that the council might have for you?

Sherriff Hieatt- I'll answer any questions that you may have. Like Mr. O’Daniel said we did meet
this morning and just to look at some of the different options and things. Just like it has already
been said, it's a process that we are going to have to go through if we move forward with this.
We also want to make sure we are doing it right and that we are doing it for what your needs are
and the way that you want, and also the way that the new Police Chief would want it to be. So,
we had a good meeting this morning and I'm just here for any questions or to hear from you all.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Sherriff Hieatt. I will now open up the floor for discussion. Would
anyone like to ask a question?

Doug- Could you give us an example of what Bluefield is doing? I think they only keep someone
there from 8:00am-5:00pm?

Hieatt- They have two people that they keep there, and they are open 6 days a week from 8:00am
till 6:00pm. They decided to stay open a little later in the evening for people when they get off
work in case, they may need reports and things. Then on Saturdays for people who may be out of
town during the week and things like that. So, they decided to do 6 days a week at a little longer
hour as opposed to the Town of Tazewell, who does 5 days a week and just the 8 hours a day.

Doug- Okay, can you discuss, if we had no one there at night, can we get a box or something that
would have a pager in it that someone could use to call 911 and have a police officer there in 1-2
minutes?

Hieatt- We talked about that earlier today, and none of the other departments had that. Bluefield
talked about it, and I don't know what the reasons were on why they decided to not do it. I don’t
know if they decided that it wasn't wanted or maybe the price was too high, but Southwest
College has just put in some boxes throughout the college, about seven of them, that when you
push the button, it connects you to 911 and it's over the speakers. So, the 911 dispatcher says,
“may help you?” and then they can say they need help or something like that. Then they dispatch
out to wherever that box is. The Chief of Police at Southwest College said he would be happy to
give us the company and any information we needed if that is something that the Town would
want to look at. However, if that was put in place to me that would be the same as someone
walking in the doors and someone inside hollering to a police officer. Now the time frame could
be depending on what's going on in Town. If you have a drunk driver here and a domestic
situation over here, but the dispatch would go right out for that officer to go to the building, but


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0041 ---
we are unsure of how much time would lapse because we are unsure of what would be going on
at that time,

Doug- I think that is something that we make sure we have later on,

Hieatt- Okay, he said he would help us anyway he could and answer any questions we might
have.

Kristen- Any idea how much each one of those cost?

Hieatt- No, I would have to ask him and get back with you all. | didn’t even think about asking
until we were in our meeting today,

have a camera there and a box with a pager inside. So, we can take care of our people,

Hieatt- Until al] of the things are completed as far as radio testing and everything being
transferred Over, until all that's done, if you did decide to not have anybody there in the evenings
that couldn't happen until everything was completely done. As far as getting help with overtime,
we have discussed 4 couple different options, one of them being contract labor. If you had
somebody that could Pick up an extra shift and they were willing to do that. We are also looking
at Ways we can shift some people around to try to help reduce overtime. Over the hext couple
months, it could add up with only having two full-time people there for the 24-hour coverage,
So, we are looking at ways that we can shift people around and keep the original coverage,

John- I think it depends on the direction we get tonight from you all. We love our officers, but
you could get some burnout when you are working your normal shift and then end up filling in
for dispatch, Right now, I think if we could just let them know that we just need some help for a
month or two, I think if you and I understand what the plan is it would help with a lot of that. We
talked this morning, and we are trying to shift some people around and finding ways to cover it
to reduce the cost as much as possible.

Hieatt- We just have the two full-time dispatchers and if one of them are sick or something
happens then that's a lot of hours that have to be covered to keep everything going. So, we did
talk about that, and we have some dispatchers, some who live in this area that are BSEND
certified who might want to come in and help ona short term basis until the Process gets done to
help with some of that overtime,

Seth- That's probably more economical than paying overtime.
Doug- I know to keep an officer down there, it is like $340 a night.

Laura- I think the contract labor is a good idea. I think we need to speed that up to reduce that
overtime, They are already trained with the emergency dispatch. | don't see any negative in that.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0042 ---
I think the quicker we can do that the better. If we need a consensus or a vote. I think the quicker
we can do that probably the better.

John- As long as we go under mutual aid. That is something you can look into a little further.

Hieatt- Right now, I can't say for 100% sure that we can do that with people because I wanted to
wait until tonight to see what you all wanted to do before I talked to some of them. I can't say for
sure that we would have people that would want to come and do that, but it may be an option that
we can check and see.

Seth- Yes, please do that.

Mayor Cury- I'm trying to keep the discussion lively but also tame, Doug, did you want to say
something?

Doug- Well I think we usually pay someone $12 an hour to come and work, I think we should
pay $15 an hour. If you are making $15 in Tazewell, you are not going to come and work here
for $12 an hour. I just think that would ensure someone to take those shifts.

Laura- I agree with you but I would think that would be something that John and the Sheriff can
decide. I wouldn't think that should be something we say out loud.

Doug- Well, I'm just suggesting.
Hieatt- I think that is a good thought.

Seth- Just one more thing, can we go ahead and begin the warrants and file transfers? Because
we know we are going this direction anyways, is that something we can go ahead and be working
on?

Hieatt- There are some things we can be doing now like the radio checks and working on that.
The first thing we have to do is send a request to the State Police because they are over the VCN
and NIC and we would have to send a request to them to say that the Town has agreed, and we
are moving forward to start the process of working out these things and get their approval. Those
things can start now, yes.

Laura- Mr. O’Daniel would you prefer that we go ahead and make a motion to move dispatch
over and you and the Sheriff work out all the details?

John- Sherriff Hieatt, would you need anything formal as a motion to get started on your end?

Hieatt- There are things we can do for a month that we wouldn’t need anything formal to do that.
Even if in a month, you change your mind, the process that we have done won’t hurt anything.

Mayor Cury- Just to clarify, at this point you are saying that at this point you do not need a
formal recommendation or resolution to get started, right?

John- Well, I just didn’t know if we needed something formal to get things in place on what this
is going to look like.

Mayor Cury- Okay, does anyone have any other questions for Sherriff Hieatt?


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0043 ---
Rick- I have one. Are our radios compatible with yours?

Hieatt- From vehicle to vehicle they are not but from vehicle to dispatch, yes. We can dispatch
out to all the units and their portables, yes.

That won't change no matter where dispatch is. Or how that goes won't change just because the
radios are different but as far as the main dispatch it can still send out calls to the radios. Yes,
that has been taken care of and it is compatible.

Rick- So, from this point on, we really need to go with the type of radios that you all are using?

Hieatt- In the future, if radios are bought and things have to be upgraded, that might would be a
good move to buy the same radios that the other law enforcement has throughout the county.

Seth- We are the only agency that doesn't have that radio.

Kristen- When we had that discussion before we were talking about how there were a lot of
different things that needed to be thought out. If you would have gone to Bluefield with us, you
would have heard some discussion about the differences between the way their Police Station
works. Their walk-in traffic is about 2 a day compared to 13-20 minimum down here. So, there
are some things to think out there. I don’t think one single box out there is going to work. If we
are going to go to that then we need several all over Town, and I think it needs to be well
publicized, so people know where to look for it at. I don't think it's reasonable to tell people that
we can have a Police Officer to the Police Station in 3 minutes, As far as the Police themselves,
we were talking about how we don't have the RAT packs like they do in Bluefield. We also
talked about how the other places communicate a little bit better so that it bounces from their car
to their radio and that we would need probably about 14 more of those at about $2600 each. The
radios were an issue. They definitely need to be upgraded. They are old, but when they were
new, they were a little bit better radios then I think they are now.

Seth- Being around for a long time, the only thing that I would say to that would be we did try to
get Richlands to buy the same radios when they bought them. They refused to do it,

Kristen- Were those not bought with grant?

Seth- We had it all worked out for everybody in the county to have the same radios and they did
not want to do that at the time.

Kristen- Were those not bought with from a 2008 Homeland Security grant?
Seth-We had a grant that covered the entire county and they rejected and did not want it.

Laura- There was also a grant that I presented to the council, as a citizen, two years ago. It was
the Virginia Information Technology or something like that. They offered to come in and help
the Town of Richlands to buy new radios and the council at the time refused to do it, and we lost
that grant. So, now we are at a point of how many times has the council said no to new radios but
here we are. It has got to be dealt with one way or another. I don't disagree about the boxes; I
think it is a really great idea to have them. We may could even have one by the post office and
maybe at Critterville or something, and whatever that cost is going to look like. However, for a


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0044 ---
year the Police Department doors were locked 24 hours a day and nobody had any issue with
that. Mr. Reynolds has also been in here asking for the RAT pack repeaters, if I'm not mistaken
and has been denied and given a hard time over it. So, unfortunately, we are in a situation, and it
is not going to be an ideal situation but once we get past the initial costs, we are going to start
seeing the benefits.

Seth- Good news is, it is a brand-new day. Let John and the Sheriff and Mr. Hankins tell us what
we need, how much we need, and we can move forward with that. The savings that we're going
to gain in the long run are going too far exceed any cost that we would have to spend, even if we
put these boxes in. I think that is a great idea, Kristen. It is something we probably have needed
for years at Critterville anyway, and some of these places after dark. So, I think we can look at
all those things and I think we are willing to do what we need to do to get us where we need to
be to be safer. That is the whole purpose of our Police Force, our Fire and Rescue. We want this
to be the best.

If you guys could work on a list for us over the next few weeks, that would be great. You guys
figure out what we need and what the pricing is on it, then we can figure out how we are going to
pay for it.

Mayor Cury- I think we have had several different opinions and discussions on this. So, from
what I am hearing on this is that we are going to be moving forward with the 911, it is just a
matter of how are we going to do that? We cannot micromanage the details from these chairs. I
would put my faith in everyone involved directly with the 911 transfer. I feel that council would
be advised to leave the details to those directly involved with the transfer.

Doug- I make a motion to move forward with the transfer to 911. Laura seconded the motion.

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion? All those in favor of the
motion say yes. All those that oppose say no. Roll Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff- Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion carries -6/0.

Hieatt- I just want to say one thing, I don’t want anyone leaving tonight thinking that since we
are transferring to 911 that we have to buy new radios. The radios that we have are compatible
with what we are needing them to do. Also, we are always looking for new grants. We did get a
smaller grant awarded to us for 8 new radios and we would be happy to use those but 8 wouldn’t
be enough to cover all the vehicles and things that we have. However, we are always look for
new grants for things like that that would help us buy all new radios.

John- I would still like to have some direction on what this is going to look like. Are we going to
stay open 24 hours or close down at night?

Mayor Cury- I would suggest that you come back with alternate plans rather than us sitting up
here saying do this or do that. Because some of us want it open and some of us thinks it should
be closed. I think that would be a discussion between you and Sherriff Hieatt and anyone else
that is directly involved.

Laura- Heather, I would like to hear what you have to say. You look like you want to say
something.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0045 ---
Heather- I just don’t know how you want us to address this. We can't really address it without

knowing what you want it to look like. Is it going to take two people, three people, or zero
people.

Mayor Cury- Heather, what times? Two people or three people at what times?

Laura- I think what he is saying is you guys look at that and say okay if you're going to have one
person in there 24 hours a day. You guys come back to us and say to fill that position for 24

hours a day, we are going to need eight people working three shifts... why are you shaking your
head?

Heather- I don't understand why we are doing this then if that is the case. That is exactly what we
have now.

Kristen- I thought they were going to find some help to try to fill in until we can. -
Seth- Are you talking about in interim or are you talking about going forward?

Heather- Going forward. What do you want it to look like going forward?

through and do this ina nice, controlled way.

Laura- I can see both sides of this. I think what would be beneficial to me would be for you guys
to come back at our next meeting and say, “if we keep this open, this is how many people we are
going to need at this cost.” Then come also come back with “this is how much money we would
save if we closed it at this time.” Then we would be able to look at it and weigh those Opinions.

Mayor Cury- I think Laura and Kristen has both expressed this very well and money is very
important, but safety should always be our main priority. Doug, did you have something to say?

Doug- All the other towns have kept someone there from 8:00am- 5:00pm. If you continue to
stay open 24 hours a day, then there would be no reason to even go to 911. To me, that's
ridiculous. Right now, we cannot keep people in dispatch, which is why we need to go to 911

Heather- J just have concerns about the overtime. We are not running at full staff, which is why
the overtime is so high. That is why I wanted to get some better direction, because the overtime
is running in excess because we only have half of our Police Officers and staff.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Heather. You are looking at it from the business side of it, and I

appreciate that. All towns are different, and I think that we need to come up with our own unique
little plan.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0046 ---
Jeff- To me, I think this is a discussion that we need to have with our new Chief. I just don’t
want to put the buggy before the horse. The new Chief may have some new ideas that we haven’t
even thought of yet.

Seth- Just to give Heather some direction. Right now, I think let the sheriff reach out and try to
find some people to fill in to stop this overtime. J agree with Jeff, I think the new Chief needs to
be a part of that conversation. [ also hear what Doug is saying and J agree with that as well. I
don't think we need to be open all the time. We were closed down for a year and everybody was
fine with that. However, there are some things that are going to have to take place for us to do
that. I think in the county there are probably two different models: the Bluefield model, I think
they have some Saturday hours as well and run their hours maybe 8:00am-5:00pm or something
like that. Okay, so then you have the Tazewell model, and they have a different model. So, I
think our model may not be exactly like either of those but similar.

Heather, I don't see us being open 24 hours a day. I don't think that is where we are going. I think
that whoever they put in that position, may have more duties than just answering people who
walk in off the street. I would imagine that you could find a better utilization for someone’s time,
talent, and abilities than to just sit there and watch the door. There are other things that need to
be done and I'm sure there's lots of paperwork. This role is going to be different than just a
dispatcher but if we are going to have someone there during those hours, and you guys can let us
know what level of education, degree, skills, abilities, and whatever else you want the
qualification to be in this job.

I agree with Jeff, I think this is going to be a little bit down the road. Once we get a new Chief in
and that person can begin to decide how they want things to look like. However, in the interim,
don’t panic. I don't see us hiring another individual right now. I don't think that is the right
choice. If we can have some folks that would fill in for us until we can get all this switched over,
I think that will get us through this time. Does that help?

Heather- I mean, I guess. I just want to go back to what John had said and I just want to make
sure that everybody is thinking about what this is going to look like in the future. Obviously, you
would want the new Chief to be a part of that discussion and decision making. However, within
the three months or less time, we would still like to know, and we think the people will desire to
know what this is going to look like.

Mayor Cury- I am just going to be honest, we do not know either. We can be up here saying do
this or do that, but we don’t know either. It is going to take some creativity on everyone’s part.
Creating a new scene for all of us.

John- Our main concern right now is the overtime. The longer we have to drag this out the more
overtime we are going to have to pay. I think when Heather and J looked at those numbers today,
it kind of brought everything into prospective. I just want everyone to understand there is going
to be a lot paid out in overtime until we make a decision.

Seth- We have already given you a decision.

Heather- I understand, but we still have to have it opened until everything is settled.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0047 ---
Seth- They are doing everything they can do. They can’t go any faster. Let me just say it plainly,
Dispatch is moving to the Sheriff's Department. From the consensus I see up here tonight, we are
not going to be open 24 hours a day. Does that help?

Heather- I understand. J just want you all to understand, we are going to have to continue to pay
overtime until all of this is resolved.

Seth- We understand. This is not a new problem. One of the big problems that we have is we are
paying over $100,000 in overtime last year and well on our way of paying over $110,000 in
overtime for this year. This is why we are where we are.

John- Okay, I just wanted to make sure everyone was on the same page.

Seth- Sure. No one is mad. We are where we are because of the situation.

Mayor Cury- John and Heather are you satisfied?

John- Yes. We will plan on having another discussion at our September meeting.

Mayor Cury- Okay, we are moving on to our next topic: Electric Battery Storage Discussion. We
have Alice Wolfe and Garrett Cole here tonight to speak to us via zoom.

Alice- J just wanting to talk a little bit about Blue Ridge. It is a membership association with 9
communities and each one of those is an electric distribution utility just like Richlands is. So,
each community has the responsibility to serve retail customers. The agency is funded entirely
by member dues. We don't have any revenue on our power supply, and we wouldn't be affected
if you choose not to participate in this project. Tonight, is a perfect example of the type of
projects that Blue Ridge was founded for. The reason that the members created the agency is to
get economies of scale and buying power and negotiating contracts. For anyone listening who
might be new to the term “economies of scale” it just means that when you buy more at once,
you get a better per unit price. If all the Blue Ridge members who are interested in this project
would all move forward at the same time, the Richlands project would be about 112th of the
total. So, we think that's a really nice benefit for a small community like Richlands to be able to
participate in this larger project with the other communities. We are proposing to follow the
same structure that Blue Ridge members have used in the past. So, the final contract would be
directly between Richlands and the Battery Developer. I am familiar with the Town’s power
supply contracts, I help negotiate and administer them, but I am not actually party to the
contracts. Blue Ridge does not sign on to them.

So, the number one reason we started this project last year is the AEP transmission rates. The
transmission rates refer to those high voltage lines, those towers that you see when you are
driving along highway. All of the Blue Ridge members are transmission dependent utilities,
which means that no one has enough generation in Town to serve all of their retail customers.
So, we need a strong transmission system. The challenge we are having here is that AEP’s
transmission rates have gone up so dramatically in the last 10 years. It has quadrupled. It is now
about 25% of the Towns wholesale electric bill. So, we are really looking for some way to
provide some cost contro] that will help keep your rates under control. I want to be very clear,
and this is a big picture issue. It began before the pandemic, we really started to see the rates rise


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0048 ---
in earnest about 2014. So, this has been going on before the pandemic. It is not related to the
supply chain shortages. It is not related to the inflation that we are seeing nowadays. It has been
going on for a while and unfortunately, we think it is going to continue. I also want to be clear
that everyone in Richlands pays these transmission rates. So, J understand that part of the Town’s
residents is served by AEP and part of them are served by the Town’s Electric System. Everyone
is paying these transmission rates. This project is for the Town’s Electric System. Unfortunately,
there is not a lot of easy ways to lower the transmission rates or lower those transmission costs.
So, using a battery to lower the Town’s peak, is going to be one of the best ways to do that.

Garrett and I both zoomed into your July council meeting, so just a little preview of what is
different from that last meeting: cost benefit numbers, you'll see tonight are better than what they
were presented in July. One of the main reasons for that is the Inflation Reduction Act that was
passed by Congress and signed by President Biden just last week. So, that moved very quickly.
This Act included a standalone tax credit for batteries, so that made a difference in these
numbers and then Garrett will talk a little bit more about some other opportunities the developers
are bringing to us. So, I will turn this this presentation over to Garrett, I look forward to hearing
your guy’s thoughts and questions.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Alice. Garrett?

Garrett- Good Evening, everyone. Thank you, Alice. I just wanted to go over where we are at. |
think from our last discussion in July this is a positive note for how cost has reduced like Alice
just mentioned.

We are looking at a location that would hold a 2-megawatt battery. The 2-megawatt would last 2
hours and then it would have to charge back up. The term of our interest would be for 15 years
by contract in Summer of 2024. This is consistent with all the others in the project. We are
looking at consistent timelines. While Richlands is looking at a smaller size compared to the
others, they are participating in the Global Economy across the entire Blue Ridge group.

As some of you that have been on the council for a while now will notice that this rate at 9.24 per
kilowatt month continue to increase, and we estimate the rate will hit double digits by 2023. This
type of projects is one of the ways that we can mitigate that to avoid transmission cost.

How are we using this project to save money for the Town? We experience the cost of AEP
transmission which is clearly our focus here. It shows a rate above $10 in 2023 and it escalates
out into the future over the 15-year term that we're talking about. That is the rate that continues
to escalate the cost that we anticipate avoiding with the battery. Our annual reduction cost using
the battery is worth $300,000 per year. We also have that PJM capacity component in the market
that we would also offset. We are being very conservative in the way we look at that cost. So,
these are the two primary components of cost that we are trying to avoid with this project.

Again, why are we here? This is an opportunity to avoid transmission cost. We are using the
battery to avoid higher transmission cost. So, our conclusions are: Our Economics are favorable
and provide a net benefit. They have improved significantly since we talked to you guys in July.
Also, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022. It is an opportunity for Richlands to take an additional
10% provision. Our plan is to negotiate our final agreement as we go through September. The


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0049 ---
goal would be to follow up with you guys with a recommendation and let you guys know how
the negotiating is going on the final agreement. We will also be looking for the council’s
decision with the intentions of being done with it by September.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Garrett and Alice. I will open this to council for any questions that they
might have.

Doug- Can the 2 hours offset the majority of the peaks like in the summertime?

Garrett- We have about an 85% success rate for hitting those peaks. You can marginally approve
that success rate by having a longer duration, but you a pay a lot more in cost to have a longer
duration. We also have the flexibility to run the battery at less if we need to gain an additional
duration in the future. Based on our research the 2 hours have been enough to hit the winter and

summer peaks. We see a pretty high success rate in doing that and feel strongly about the 2 hours
working in our favor.

Mayor Cury- Garrett and Alice thank you very much for coming and speaking to us tonight. You
guys have a wonderful evening, and we will see you again in September.

John, on the agenda it says we need to have Executive/Closed Session to speak about the
contract negotiation. Do we need to do that tonight?

John- No, they were able to present it in a way that we didn’t need to go int Closed Session. We
may have to do that at our next meeting in September.

Mayor Cury- Okay, thank you. Next, we are on Iron Street Property Update and Discussion with
Karen Weber.

Karen- I am new to the Department of Environmental Health, but I am not new to the work. I
have a geologist degree and I have done this type of work for years and years. I have seen this
site and the data on it. I am sure that you guys here are more familiar with the actual site than I
am, but hopefully I can help answer any questions that you may have about it.

John- So. essentially this is a property we have talked about for 14 to 20 years. They have been
working on for several years. We talked about it several months ago and it kind of got put on the
back burner with some other things that came up, that took priority. There has been a little bit
more movement from the current property owner with the transition. Also, the new members of
council coming along that were not here when we had those discussions before, and I wanted to
have somebody coming from DEQ and give an overview of the property. I just wanted them to
let everyone know what the issues were, how it's been addressed, and what the potential is for
your future steps. If this is something that we choose to take on and try to get something
developed there? So that is why I asked them to come here and present a general overview and
then allow you all to ask any questions about the property before a decision is made on how the
Town would like to move forward or not at this time.

Karen- So, you all know me, my name is Karen Weber, and I am a Senior Remediation Officer
that's my job title. I actually work under the voluntary mediation program. So, we are assigned.
sites and they are ours to take from start to finish or in our case, when people leave or retire and


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0050 ---
somebody new comes on, we take over those sites. Our job is not to recreate everything that's
been done before, but to make sure that what has been done is appropriate and allows us to move
forward making decisions.

So, when we took over this site a lot the buildings were already gone but thankfully, we had a lot
of maps and were able to identify where the battery storage, the waste disposal, and where the
maintenance shops were. So, even though a site doesn't have buildings or might look flat or
vacant we still can identify the high potential areas. Those areas where there is more likely to be
impact. So, we look at it as, did they address all of those? Did they account for all of those?
However, there are some things that are unknown. Thankfully, we had a lot of information and a
lot of history about this site. The other things that we look at is, what are the site characteristics?
The geology and the soil types, and the water and where does the water move underground and
where does it move on the surface. Those all tell us where things are going to go and once we
know what compounds we might have or metals we might have, we can then figure out where
they might go. If you have the horror of PCBS, it's going to park itself and stay relatively
immobile unless there's wind or water that moves it along. If you have something like a volatile
compound that might be from petroleum soutce, it's probably underground already and probably
released underground. It is going to move a certain way and it's going to move at a certain speed
and it's going to degrade in a certain way. So, all of those things are taken into consideration and
sometimes that's why we do an assessment.

Based on everything that I saw it has been a collaborative effort with the consultant, the owner,
and the Town. With us, there has been dialogue all along, but it does kind of start, stop, start, and
stop. So, the plant operation goes from the early 1960s - 1992ish and the buildings started
coming down about 1994, That is what we have in our site history. So, the initial environmental
assessments that we have that we've seen are from 1999-2002. That kicked off and eventually
started the enrollment in the voluntary remediation program and so not all of the traction are in
there. We had 1, 3 and 4 entered the program in 2007. Track 2 had a little bit of petroleum
impact from a petroleum. That piece was not eligible for further evaluation under the voluntary
program. So, once that was resolved to the satisfaction of the petroleum group, it then became
eligible for continuation under the voluntary remediation program and further evaluate the
benefit to our program. It's not a regulatory program, it’s kind of a guided program and in the
end, we accept the work that's been done. We accept the evaluation and look at their risk
assessment. Did they consider all possibilities? Did they collect enough samples? Did they
propose mitigation or remediation that protects the human health and the environment? Then
when it's done, they get enforcement immunity so someone else isn't going to come back and
then put the regulatory hand over top of the site. You have some protections just by having gone
through the voluntary mediation program.

So, we started with some site characterization and risk assessment and at that point it started to
get noticed and as so many of you know, the health department got involved. There was some
public concern and so there was a public health assessment done. That is not normal, but it does
happen on some of these sites and in this instance the VDH did come in and work with the DEQ
and under the program and help evaluate that risk for human health and potential risks from prior


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0051 ---
use and exposures. So, that happened relatively quick from 2013 to 2014. Then it stopped a little
bit again picked back up in 2017.

Now we're going to start with the site characterization; What do we have? What's in the soil?
What's in the groundwater? What might be in the vapor? What might be in the stream? What
might be in the stream sediment? What can people touch? Then we are going to take that data
and put it into a risk assessment and that is usually quantitative. So, it's statistics. Once we have a
risk assessment that says the pathway from the soil to a child playing on playground is evident
then we would say now we need to do a remedial action that addresses that possibility and how
do we protect it. That's the process through the VRP. Ultimately, once we have a remedial action
plan that we accept and are in agreement with, they will implement it. Once it's implemented
then we will issue a certification of satisfactory completion of remedial actions and at that point
it ig done with the VRP and moves on to the next step. So, we went back and forth a little bit and
the reason I put all this detail up is not to make it look like there's a lot of work that's been done,
but it has been a long process and there have been a lot of eyes on it and there has been a lot of
sampling that's been done. Again, we reached 2020, the end of 2020 and things picked back up.
So, now the ball is rolling again. I think you have an owner who's motivated to get through this
and get it finished and they are very close to getting it finished. The goal of all of that is just to
say we are moving along and almost to that point of implementing their remedial actions. We
have reviewed the plan that they have now and had some dialogue. We just have a few things to
clarify, and they are going to start with their site work. So, again they looked at soil, they looked
at groundwater, they looked at the surface water, the clinch river, and the water moving across
the site in that swale, they look at sediment, and they look at vapor migration. For this site, we
compare it to both the commercial, industrial uses, and residential screening levels. There are
residential properties nearby and we wanted to keep the door open for possible redevelopment of
the site under all scenarios. It doesn’t mean everything could go there, like I wouldn’t put a

community garden on this site, but there are other things that you could do with this site that
would be beneficial.

When we looked at the water, we looked at drinking water standards even though everyone
around the site is connected to public water and sewer. We also looked at surface water quality
and even ecological risk because the clinch river is a sensitive habitat. So, all of those things
were considered. I think there were 90 groundwater samples taken overtime. There might even
be more than that. There is vapor samples, some sediment and stream sampling, and some
sample taken along the river. So, a lot of the things that we found were isolated and not site wide.
We are not seeing widespread lead in the soil. We are seeing pockets of high concentration lead,
where if you go back to the site history there may have been battery storage or disposal units that
are stored there, and it makes sense. When we got to the remedial action consideration, we were
really looking at two things: we looked at volatile compounds and semi-volatile compounds. As I
mentioned before, there was some petroleum work. So, we're looking at things that are petroleum
based, things that are solvent based. and all sorts of operation chemicals that may have been
stored or used or generated on site. We also looked at heavy metals and the two things that stood
out as still being present are some volatile organic compounds in the groundwater and lead
impacts in the soil. Both of those, as I mentioned are isolated. So, we're not seeing VOCs in all
the wells but we are seeing them in over places, and we're not seeing lead across the site but we


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0052 ---
are seeing it in some areas. So, all of the things we are looking at are what types of things are a
concern, how it might move through the site, and how it might impact the site moving forward.

They have remedial actions planned as protective measures. We intend to put a groundwater use
restriction on all four tracks of the VRP site. So, even if a commercial or industrial facility were
to build there, they wouldn't be able to use the groundwater for process water and that would
eliminate the possibility for contact. They would be able to tie into the public water system. The
properties in the vicinity are connected to public water and sewer and that was also key when the
health department came out and said, you are not drinking the water, and you are not using it in
your garden, your potential to come in contact with this is negligible to low. The nature of the
compounds is at such a low risk, or it will degrade quickly overtime or degrade to such a degree
or migrate or it's not flowing towards you. All of those things were taken into consideration. It is
not typical we see industrial sites like this.

Again, we might have almost 100 soil samples, but we can't get every single spot. So. we will
have some sort of soil management control put restrictions on how deep they can go but try to
make it in a way that is not so restrictive that if you have to do a water line fix in an emergency
that it holds up. So, there will be some caveats in there that people will just need to be aware
from health and safety standpoint. However, for the most part, we would just say, don't go
digging around Willy Nilly. At this point, it's considered that there might be a residential use
restriction at the site. That doesn't mean that it could never be residential. So, if you wanted to
put a multifamily structure on there, it would just be a dialogue with the DEQ. Like where are
you going to put that building? Where are you going to put the parking? Why don't we shift it
here, so the parking covers this groundwater area where there might be vapor or you install a
vapor mitigation system just to be protective. There are mechanisms to still consider other
possible redevelopment uses, but that is one of the things that we are still going back and forth
on.

So, for us the next step, we are going to confirm some groundwater controls. We are talking
about site use restrictions. We then will issue a formal letter that says we accept your remedial
actions, and they will then implement it primarily. When I say implement, that means by the fall
they want to be moving that lead impacted soil out and off the site. Then we will issue that
certification. Then, you guys can consider your acquisition plans, identify some redevelopment
options, and think about what your desires are for this site or site uses or if there are other
options that you guys want to consider or other development interest.

From the VRP standpoint, we feel that the site has been well characterized. They have taken into
consideration the full site history and there's been a lot of work done. I can’t tell you whether or
not to buy the property, but I can speak about the work that has been done to the site.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Karen. This has been discussed for years and this is the best it has ever
been explained. Does anyone have any questions for Karen?

Laura- I know I am new to the council, but I am lost. Are we buying this or is it being donated?

John- We didn't get that far in the negotiation. As I understand, it would be a donation. I think
they are trying to get it off their books.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0053 ---
Laura- Do you have plans for this site?

John- There has been a couple different ideas that I have been tossing around. We haven't really
settled on anything. So, it is kind of a question of do we want to take it on with the potential
environmental concerns? If we do want to take it on, there has been some discussions about
either using it for the public works garage. To get it moved from downtown or potentially use it
to try to recruit a business to develop a site there.

Laura- If we did that then we would be selling the land then to a business?

John- Essentially, we would sell it. That would be up for discussion. It could be used as an
incentive to get a business here.

Mayor Cury- Laura, to add to your question and answer, based on what she's saying by

purchasing or accepting the property, we are also accepting all the liabilities that come with it. Is
that correct?

Karen- That is correct. However, with the VRP program, there is that enforcement immunity to
the site and you would still have that opportunity to do your own due diligence review before
you take over complete ownership. Both those things will be protective of your liabilities.

Seth- Okay, I feel a lot better about this site since this presentation. Do you all present a
certificate or something we can look at to see what and all has been done to this site.

Karen- There is a certificate. It is a certification of satisfactory completion of remedial actions
and that is the stamp that says we reviewed everything leading up to their remedial actions, and
we agreed to what they plan to do. Some of those are just deed restrictions, like don't use the
groundwater. Some of them are remove the infected soil. All of those are memorialized in that
certificate.

Seth- I feel like a better option for us, if the goal for this is to make it a site or for someone to
potentially put a business there, maybe we just help the owner facilitate that by seeking out a
business. However, in that scenario, the town would never have to take ownership. We find
someone who wants to come in and they are willing to do this. That makes it a lot more
seamless for us. Now if we are going to use the site or a portion of the site for something for the
Town’s needs, then that is different.

John- The only thing would be to make it more attractive. They are willing to donate to us
because we're municipality versus an industry.

Seth- Okay, maybe we buy an option for a dollar for a year while we seek out and see what we
are going to do and maybe we sign an option agreement with them for a year.

John- Definitely could be an option.

Mayor Cury- Thank you, Karen so much for coming, I hope you have a safe trip back to
Blacksburg.

Laura- Do you have an interested party in this site?


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0054 ---
John- No.
Mayor Cury- Is there any other business that needs to be brought before the council?
John- Excuse me, Mayor. Is there any direction on what the council wants to do with this site?

Mayor Cury- I think we should wait until they do their final report and get back to us and then
we can make our decision.

John- Okay, that’s fine.
Mayor Cury- There being no further business tonight, I will ask for a motion to adjourn.
Kristen- I make a motion to adjourn this meeting. Seth seconded the motion.

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion? All those in favor of the
motion say yes. All those that oppose say no. Roll Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff- Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion carries -6/0.

Adjourned!!

Rodney D. Cury, Mayor

Rebekah Hackworth, Clerk


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0055 ---
The Richlands Town Council held a “Workshop” on August 25th, 2022, in the Richlands
Council Chambers at 6:00 pm with the following present:

Mayor: Rod D. Cury
Town Manager: John O’ Daniel
Town Clerk: Rebekah Hackworth

Council Members: Doug Ratliff, Jeff Hurst, Rick Woods, Kristen Thompson- Whitt, Seth
White, and Laura Mollo.

Town Attorney: Michael Thomas
Mayor Cury opened the meeting.
Laura Mollo gave the invocation.
Mayor Cury led the Pledge of Allegiance.

Mayor Cury- The only thing on our agenda for tonight is an Executive/Closed Session by VA
Code 2.2-3711 (A)(1) regarding a Personal Matter.

Is there a motion to go into Closed Session?

Rick- I make a motion to go into Executive/Closed Session by VA Code 2.2-3711 (A)(1). Jeff
seconded the motion.

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion? All those in favor of the
motion say yes. All those that oppose say no. Roll Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff- Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion carries -6/0.

Mayor Cury- We are back in regular session. I will entertain a motion to return to regular
session.

Laura~ I make a motion to return to regular session. Jeff seconded the motion.

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion? All those in favor of the
motion say yes. All those that oppose say no. Roll Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff- Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion carries -6/0.

Mayor Cury- Thank you. Next, I would ask council to make a motion to certify that the entirety
of the conversation was precisely to observe the Executive/Closed Session Pursuant to Virginia
Code section 2.2-3711(A)(1) -Personnel. In doing so you are certifying that nothing was
discussed other than the business at hand. Is there a motion for that?

Jeff- I make a motion that nothing was discussed except for the business at hand. Rick seconded
the motion.

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion? All those in favor of the
motion say yes. All those that oppose say no. Roll Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff- Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion carries -6/0.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0056 ---
Mayor Cury- We will recess until 5:30 on Monday, August 29",

Rodney D. Cury, Mayor

Rebekah Hackworth, Clerk


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0057 ---
Mayor: Rod D. Cury
Town Manager: John O’ Daniel
Town Clerk: Rebekah Hackworth

Council Members: Doug Ratliff, Jeff Hurst, Rick Woods, Kristen Thompson-Whitt, Seth
White and Laura Mollo.

Town Attorney: Michael Thomas
Mayor Cury opened the meeting,

Due to us Teconvening from our last meeting, we wil] dispense with the Invocation and the
Pledge of Allegiance.

The only thing on our agenda for tonight is an Executive/Closed Session by VA Code 2.2-371]
(A)(1) tegarding a Personnel Matter.

Is there a Motion to go into Closed Session?

Jeff- I make a Motion to go into Executive/Closed Session by VA Code 2.2-371] (A)(1). Rick

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion? Al] those in favor of the
motion say yes, All those that Oppose say no. Rol] Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff. Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Absent, Laura- Yes. Motion Carries -5/] absent,

Mayor Cury- We are back in regular session, | will entertain a Motion to return to regular
Session.

Rick- I make 4 Motion to return to regular session. Kristen seconded the motion,

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion? Al] those in favor of the
motion say yes, Al] those that OPPose say no. Roll Cal]. Doug- Yes, Jeff. Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion Carries -6/0.

Mayor Cury- Thank you. Next, I would ask council to make a motion to certify that the entirety
of the conversation was Precisely to observe the Executive/Closed Session Pursuant to Virginia
P .

Mayor Cury- We have 4 motion and a Second, any further discussion? Al] those in favor of the
motion say yes. All those that Oppose say no. Rol] Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff- Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion Carries -6/0,


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0058 ---
Rick- | make a motion to adjourn this meeting. Laura seconded the motion.

Mayor Cury- We have a motion and a second, any further discussion? All those in favor of the
motion say yes. All those that oppose say no. Roll Call- Doug- Yes, Jeff- Yes, Rick- Yes,
Kristen- Yes, Seth- Yes, Laura- Yes. Motion carries -6/0.

Adjourned! !

Rodney D. Cury, Mayor

Rebekah Hackworth, Clerk


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0059 ---
TO: John O'Daniel Date Submitted: 9/9/2022

SUBJECT: Budget Amendment #2 Date of Council Action: 9/13/2022

| hereby request that the budget and related appropriation for the _General Fund be amended, as set forth below, as
permitted and authorized by the General Statutes of Virginia.

Account No Title Department Amount

Expenditure Account:
10-5415-640000 Capital- Fire Fire Department ($51,582)

$ (51,582.00)
—

Expenditure Account:

10-5416-640000 Capital- Finance Finance Department $51,582
——__ po tn 02 |

S 51,582.00
——_—_—

record a grant's acceptance or amendment, the Finance Department has received a copy thereof and it appears to be in
order.

Remarks:
Received and reviewed by finance officer: ta O No
Approved for Council consideration: Ves O No
Finance Officer
Pa ACTION OF TOWN MANAGER
a a C
Vv Approved for Council Action ,
Town/Manager
Disapproved
COUNCIL ACTION
Approved
a,

Disapproved Rodney D. Cury, Mayor



--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0060 ---


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0061 ---
ORDINANCE NO.: O-2022-09-01

Amendment to Existing Ordinance

TITLE xy: LAND USAGE
CHAPTER 134: ZONING

BE IT ORDAINED by the Council of the Town of Richlands, Virginia, that
pursuant to §5_7 Of the Town Charter, and $§154.015(A) and 154.205 of the Town
of Richlands, Virginia Code of Ordinances that it hereby enacts the following amendments
to Chapter 154 of Title Xv: Land Usage, of the Town Code of Ordinances, jn order to
create a new zoning District, “Business, Expanded General, B-3,” and to establish the
Necessary criteria for the development of real Property and the Conducting of business in
the newly created Zone within the Corporate limits of the Town,

§ 154.015 GENERALLY.

(A) For Purpose of this chapter, the incorporated areas of the Town are hereby
divided into the following districts:

(1) Residential, Limited, R-1;

(2) Residential, General, R-2;

(3) Business, General, B-2;

(4) Business, Expanded General, B-3;
(5) Industrial, General, M-1;

(6) Agricultural, General, A-1; and
(7) Conservation, Special, C-]

Business, Expanded General, District B-3

§ 154.080 STATEMENT OF INTENT.

light and noise of congregation of people and Passenger vehicles Additionally, this
district js created to allow for an expansion of Seneral business applications Within the

Town, the location and establishment of which is hot designated for location Or use in
existing District B-2.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0062 ---
§ 154.081 USE REGULATIONS.

In Business District B-3, structures to be erected or land to be used, shall be for all
uses as designated as allowable in District B-2, and for the following uses:

(A) Hospital, Special Care, with a special exception permit.
§ 154.082 AREA REGULATIONS.

(A) None, except for permitted uses utilizing individual sewage disposal systems,
the required area for any such use shall be approved by the Town Health Official, or the
Tazewell County Health Department.

(B) The Administrator may require a greater area if considered necessary by the
Town Health Official, or the Tazewell County Health Department.

§ 154.083 SETBACK REGULATIONS.

Buildings shall be located thirty-five (35) feet or more from the centerline of any
street right-of-way, except that signs advertising sale or rent of premises may be erected
upon the property line. This shall be known as the setback line.

§ 154.084 FRONTAGE AND YARD REGULATIONS.

For permitted uses, the minimum space adjoining or adjacent to a residential district
shall be ten (10) feet, and off-street parking shall be in accordance with the provisions
contained herein.

§ 154.085 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.

Buildings may be erected up to thirty-five (35) feet in height from grade, except
that:

(A) The height limit for buildings may be increased up to forty-five (45) feet and
up to three (3) stories provided there are two (2) side yards for each permitted use, each of
which is ten (10) feet or more, plus one (1) foot or more of side yard for each additional
foot of building height over thirty-five (35) feet;

(B) A public or semipublic building such as a school, church, library, general
hospital, or hospital (special care) may be erected to a height of sixty (60) feet from grade
provided that the required front, side and rear yards shall be increased one (1) foot for each
foot in height over thirty-five (35) feet;

(C) Church spires, belfries, cupolas, monuments, water towers, chimneys, flues,
flagpoles, television antennas and radio aerials are exempt. Parapet walls may be up to
four (4) feet above the height of the building on which the walls rest; and

(D) No accessory structure which is within ten (10) feet of any party lot line shall
be more than one (1) story high. All accessory structures shall be less than the main
structure in height.


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0063 ---
~ “<2)
© Con “cacy,
“Ory Ars,
Moy,
peta. Why —
Way ~
Moo,
Mayo
eng
“Beery, Date Oe oe "ber,


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0064 ---


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0065 ---
eos “I * : Al q meer —
: eae ez ot foe ,
é é $ a if a spre " a a + : " * ~ fs js L—t a ——— ae
Ps i sos, I } 2 “i heer ie ¢ / a ts a, :
ae a : Ie . r ‘a , a
i> fee b : f = “i » Sj . &, a =
’ Se 74 gr J ed ' 4 4 i i punt § : 4 » wh % if) "4 " ee v 2 : y 7
i >» a —— , ; eg — ~ if’ x A id i, pe te, Oy |
a | FE Se oft ‘/ fh mg ley 7
waited ‘d > ~— hy, i bg i - hea A ie ei Lk q —_ iPS
f peg . a, ‘« >.” + Vomed fa py t hee fie ? he oer = Me at
~ ; F } i f! - Bs <2. Li ee —_ te . a / hips Pre a eee st i
| & mf * Dat. ite iy Ps BS i ae —_ te, fa bu ~
Sy fi } ile fe S fae fa ff - <i ty By. Res) a a y/- Rs
| ie. *” Sint . = - & ae. fe my S tod yee Be "SY
Jy “ ‘ly “- 7 fe en. Poy eo “ 7 i es + ; ny
ifm Me |" ie #4 Pee ? fe cag / ee te oh MM Ai Ti: } f} a j
amd. a Ag: fy” pees a jp a en - fi ald .
Se fo ~ ot ata 2 ay ee on a 79 ff. ee £ fon ay
By oe * Ate oe bl if i  £ . os - x ‘ «é~ x f a0 By ~
7 . or { ee fe 2 7 it "I
ia } ne il “« {| | 8 “ 7 3 hing Pe |
at tee ome ea if.
a 4 1} t = = Hy $ 4) Poe Sieg ee Sian , in eS
4 4 rf) +e penne anard : ~ ae ai 1 : é “>.
5s oh We fa . Y igs : . f q id Gi 3
Babe \ ; La fi ~ : *) great = x My } I, |i
a ie i - 3) bis ot Nala


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0066 ---


--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0067 ---
Staffing Options for Police Department Clerk
Option A

Clerk — Lobby Open 24 hours

4 Full-time Clerks that will work 12 hour shifts throughout the week
aaotirume Clerks

4 Full-time Clerks- $226,756.16

Option B

6:00 pm 7 Days a week
shifts throughout the week

2 Full-time Clerks that will work 10 hour
ecurume Clerks

2 Full-time Clerks- $110,616

Option c

1 Full-time Clerk that will work 10 ho
=rume Clerk

1 Part-time Clerk that will work two 10 hour shifts each week
—Taltume Clerk

(Lobby Closed on Sundays)

1 Full-time clerk and 1 Part-time Clerk- $70,308

Option D

Clerk — Lobby Open 8:00 am

: to 4:30 pm 5 Days a week
1 Full-time Clerk that will work 8 hour shifts Monda
a—iirume Clerk

Y — Friday or 2 Part-time Clerks
<rart time Clerks
(Lobby Closed On Saturdays & Sundays)

1 Full-time Clerk- $56,808
2 Part-time clerks- $27,500



--- PAGE RUN_2026_05_01_B934_P0068 ---


